<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"/>
<title>The Complete Athlete</title>
<link href="../Styles/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section>
<h1 id="p313">ACKNOWLEDGMENTS</h1>

<p>We’d like to extend a special thanks to Gary Jabara for his vision and dedication to making this book possible. He was the real force behind everything with this project.</p>

<p>Thank you to the legendary Mia Hamm, <!-- Camille Levin,  -->and Kassi McCluskie, for their willingness to share their experiences as players and coaches (and, in Mia’s case, as a parent, too) in order to help others navigate the process.</p>

<p>We are deeply appreciative of our wonderful athletes who were willing to take part in the photos for this book: Gianela Davila, Madison Goerlinger, Haley Hopkins, Natalie Hueston, Camryn Netzer, Kaylee Nguyen, Sianna Siemonsma, and Autumn Thompkins, and to Dave Eckstein for his fantastic photography.</p>

<p>To all the athletes who reach out to someone who needs a little guidance, some help, a hand, a friend—you are using your sport for good and being a role model, whether you realize it or not. You inspire us.</p>

<p>And, finally, to all the parents who love their kids fiercely and only want to do the best thing for them, we seek to protect, to shield, to carry our children—but in doing so we can inadvertently do more harm than good. This book is for all of you who seek to aid your daughters in the best manner possible as they grow in the sport by helping them become independent and self-sufficient young women. Thank you for caring enough to do everything you do.</p>
</section>
</body></html>