<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"/>
<title>The Complete Athlete</title>
<link href="../Styles/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section>
<h1 id="p285">Appendix 2:
<br/>Sports Nutrition Guidelines for Athletes</h1>

<p class="author">All of <cite>The Complete Athlete</cite> sports nutrition guidelines were provided by Courtney M. Sullivan, founder of Nutrition for Body and Mind. Sullivan is a Registered Dietitian certified by the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics, and a Certified Personal Trainer recognized by the National Academy of Sports Medicine. Below are more detailed guidelines as well as suggested meals and recipes developed by Sullivan.</p>
<p class="author">Nutrition is key to enhancing your athletic performance.</p>
<p>Young athletes with inadequate diets may have insuf-ficient fuel for workouts, and/or nutrient deficiencies that can lead to fatigue, a compromised immune system, and possible injury. All of these will be reflected in their performance, regardless of their determination.</p>
<p>Proper intake of macronutrients and micronutrients is vital to enhance sports performance. Critical micro-nutrients include calcium, iron, folate, vitamin B6, and zinc.</p>

<h3 class="runin-head">CALCIUM</h3>

<p>Poor calcium intake can lead to decreased bone mass and increased risk for stress fractures and possible bone-related injuries. The adequate intake of calcium for children who are 9–18 years old is 1,300 milligrams per day. Women who are 25–50 years old require 1,000–1,200 milligrams per day. Women who are pregnant or lactating require 1,500 milligrams per day.</p>

<h3 id="p286" class="runin-head">IRON</h3>

<p>Important for its oxygen-carrying capacity, iron also plays a major role in the energy metabolism of carbohydrates, proteins, and fats. Young athletes with iron-deficiency anemia are at risk of performance inhibition as evidenced by fatigue, impaired immune function, and/or impaired cognitive reasoning. Foods that are rich in iron include red meat and enriched cereals and grains, coupled with fruits and vegetables that are high in vitamin C, which aids in iron absorption.</p>


<h3 class="runin-head">FOLATE AND VITAMIN B6</h3>

<p>Both are critical for amino-acid metabolism. Good sources of both are enriched grain products and assorted animal products. Spinach, broccoli, lentils, and asparagus are also rich sources of folate. A vitamin–B–complex deficiency can lead to fatigue, muscle soreness, and loss of cognitive function.</p>


<h3 class="runin-head">ZINC</h3>

<p>Athletes are at risk of zinc deficiency due to poor consumption of foods rich in this mineral. Zinc plays a role in more than 300 enzymatic reactions in the body. It is also critical for wound healing, tissue growth and maintenance, and immune function. Dietary protein enhances zinc absorption and plays an important role in muscle recovery.</p>


<h3 class="runin-head">MACRONUTRIENTS</h3>

<p>An increase in energy expenditure will require an increase in the intake of carbohydrates, protein, and fats. <a id="p287"/>However, you should consult with a Registered Dietitian to inquire about your customized macronutrient needs, which will be based on your height, weight, age, activity level, and gender.</p>
<p>Activity level is measured by the time (how long you exercise), type (sport or training program you’re currently in), intensity (low, moderate, or high), and frequency (how often you perform this exercise/training). After determining these factors, your estimated calorie burn will be established.</p>
<p>Current research is showing that an increasing percentage of athletes are not consuming enough total calories, as well as total carbohydrates, in comparison to the amount of calories they burn. Fluid intake is often inadequate as well, which alters the hydration status of young athletes. Therefore, it is very important to practice a pre- and post-workout nutrition regimen and rehydration program.</p>


<h3 class="runin-head">CARBOHYDRATES</h3>

<p>For athletes, poor carbohydrate intake results in inadequate glycogen stores and fatigue, which compromises sports performance and forces your body to break down its own protein stores for fuel (through a process called gluconeogenesis). Carbohydrate is the preferred fuel source for athletic performance. Carbohydrate needs are based on body weight and intensity of activity.</p>

<ul id="p288">
	<li>3–5 grams of carbohydrates per kilogram of body weight for very light intensity training</li>
	<li>5–8 grams of carbohydrates per kilogram of body weight for moderate or heavy training</li>
	<li>8–9 grams of carbohydrates per kilogram of body weight for pre-game loading (24–48 hours prior)</li>
	<li>1.7 grams of carbohydrate per kilogram of body weight for post-event refueling (within 2–3 hours)</li>
</ul>

<h3 class="runin-head">PROTEIN</h3>

<p>Protein is essential for athletes, with its role in muscle-building and lean-muscle maintenance, repair, and/or gain. It is important to note that an adequate protein intake and inadequate total calorie intake will inhibit protein balance, and can still cause lean muscle breakdown. It is critical that athletes consume adequate total calories and protein to avoid this problem and maintain a healthy body weight. Vegetarians and vegans should be mindful of consuming adequate plant proteins. On the other end, consuming excess protein can lead to dehydration (it puts strain on the kidneys), weight gain (your body will store as fat the excess protein that is not utilized), and calcium loss.</p>

<ul>
	<li>Athletes who have just begun a training program need 1–1.5 grams of protein per kilogram of body weight</li>
	<li>Athletes participating in endurance sports require 1.2–1.4 grams of protein per kilogram of body weight</li>
</ul>

<h3 class="runin-head">FAT</h3>

<p>Fat is essential for light-to-moderate intensity exercise and for absorption of the fat-soluble vitamins. Low-fat diets are not encouraged. Adequate heart healthy fats <a id="p289"/>such as monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats should make up 20–30% of your total calories. Lowering the amount of saturated fat and trans fat (the unhealthy fats) is highly encouraged. Ideally, your diet should consist of &lt;7% of total calories from saturated fat and preferably no trans fat.</p>


<h3 class="runin-head">FLUID</h3>

<p>Maintaining proper fluid balance is critical to athletic performance and avoiding early fatigue and heat exhaustion. Signs of dehydration include dark urine, small urine output, muscle cramps, increased heart rate, headaches, nausea, and vomiting.</p>
<ul>
	<li>Be sure to consume 16–24 ounces of fluid for every pound lost via sweat during exercise.</li>
	<li>For activities that are less than 60 minutes, hydrate with water.</li>
	<li>For activities that are greater than 60 minutes, hydrate with a sports beverage containing 6–8% carbohydrates to replete electrolytes and energy.</li>
</ul>

<h3 class="runin-head">GENERAL GUIDELINES</h3>


<ul>
	<li>All athletes should consume five or more balanced meals spread throughout the day, every 3–4 hours. Eating every 3 hours helps to maintain your metabolic rate, lower body fat percentage, lower serum lipid levels (cholesterol), decrease stress hormone production, lower insulin response, and improve glucose tolerance (especially if you are prediabetic, are diabetic currently, or have diabetes in your family history).</li>
	<li>Meals should be eaten 2–3 hours before practice or games, and snacks eaten 1–1 ½ hours before practice or games.</li>
	<li id="p290">Eat when you’re hungry to prevent lean-muscle breakdown and stop when you’re full to prevent being sluggish. Listen to your intuitive eating cues, which help to do the following:
		<ul>
			<li>Maintain blood sugar and insulin control</li>
			<li>Regulate appetite </li>
			<li>Improve concentration</li>
			<li>Gain lean-muscle mass </li>
			<li>Enhance muscle in the recovery process (i.e., repairing and rebuilding of muscles)</li>
		</ul>
	</li>
	<li>Eat breakfast within 30 minutes of waking up to prevent lean-muscle breakdown, increase energy and concentration, and maintain good blood sugar control. Choose whole grains, fresh fruit, and lean protein.</li>
	<li>Eat well-balanced meals and snacks, consisting of carbohydrates, lean proteins, and heart healthy fats.</li>
	<li>Drink a protein shake or eat a snack or meal that has equal amounts of protein and carbohydrates within 30 minutes after a workout.</li>
	<li>Choose fresh, whole foods when possible, instead of processed foods that are packaged or refined, to increase nutritional value. Especially avoid foods that are high in sugar or trans fats. </li>
</ul>



<h3 class="runin-head">MEAL PLANNING</h3>

<p><span class="keyword heading">BREAKFAST &gt;&gt;</span> This is the most important meal of the day so don’t skip it! You are coming from an overnight fast and will wake up with low blood sugar (by default). Breakfast literally means to “break the fast.” You need to focus on eating breakfast within 30 minutes of waking up to prevent lean-muscle breakdown, increase energy and concentration, and maintain good blood-sugar control.</p>
<p id="p291">Start your morning with 8–12 ounces of water with a squeeze of lemon wedge to rehydrate and reduce stomach acidity. Choose whole grains, fresh fruit, and lean protein. Although many breakfast choices are focused around carbohydrates, it is important to include a good source of protein for satiety and lean-muscle gain or maintenance.</p>
<p><span class="keyword heading">EXAMPLE BREAKFAST MEAL &gt;&gt;</span> 1–2 scrambled eggs (cage-free preferred), 1 slice of whole grain toast with avocado (spread on top of toast). Add a side of sliced tomatoes and a cup of low-fat cottage cheese (for added protein, as needed). If you’re trying to gain weight, adding a protein shake is also ideal with breakfast.</p>
<p><span class="keyword heading">SNACK &gt;&gt;</span> Choose a snack consisting of lean protein, fresh fruit, and a whole-grain carbohydrate. You can add essential, heart-healthy fat as needed.</p>
<p><span class="keyword heading">EXAMPLE MID-MORNING SNACK MEAL &gt;&gt;</span> One medium-sized organic apple (i.e., size of a tennis ball) with 2 tablespoons of natural almond butter or peanut butter and 1 cup of nonfat or low-fat plain Greek yogurt. Optional: Add sprinkled cinnamon and ½ cup blueberr-ies to mix with your yogurt.</p>
<p><span class="keyword heading">LUNCH &gt;&gt;</span> Eat a well-balanced meal, consisting of carbo-hydrates (whole grains, not refined white flours or sugars) and lean proteins, with a side of fresh or steamed vegetables and heart-healthy fats (omega-3s).</p>
<p><span class="keyword">Example lunch meal</span><span class="keyword"> &gt;&gt;</span> 3–4 ounces of boneless, skinless lean chicken breast; ½–1 cup cooked brown rice; and a side (~1 cup) of steamed mixed vegetables or green vegetable of choice (e.g., broccoli, asparagus, brussels <a id="p292"/>sprouts, zucchini, etc.). Add a piece of fresh fruit, such as a medium-sized orange (size of tennis ball) on the side.</p>
<p><span class="keyword heading">SNACK &gt;&gt;</span> Choose a snack consisting of a lean protein, a fresh vegetable, and a whole-grain carbohydrate. Avoid consuming foods high in fat, or excessive amounts of fiber or protein, before your training practice or game, because these foods are slow-digesting. Your body needs foods that are higher in carbohydrates, which yield readily available energy for working muscles and which also contain a high nutrient/water density to increase hydration.</p>
<p><span class="keyword heading">EXAMPLE AFTERNOON SNACK MEAL &gt;&gt;</span> 1 slice of whole grain toast with a spread of hummus (1–2 tablespoons); 2 thin slices of turkey, with sliced cucum-ber and tomato on top. You can eat this open face or add another piece of whole grain toast for additional carbohydrates. This depends on your current age, macronutrient needs, and training regimen.</p>
<p><span class="keyword heading">DINNER &gt;&gt;</span> Eat a well-balanced meal consisting of carbohydrates (whole grains, not refined white flours or sugars) and lean proteins; also add fresh or steamed vegetables and heart-healthy fats (omega-3s).</p>
<p><span class="keyword heading">EXAMPLE DINNER MEAL &gt;&gt;</span> 3–4 ounces of lean pro-tein (e.g., fish, chicken, turkey, etc.), ½–1 cup cooked quinoa or baked/sweet potato with the skin, and a side salad (e.g., kale/spinach/or mixed greens with chopped tomato, garbanzo or kidney beans, shredded carrots, chopped broccoli, avocado, feta cheese, and a light balsamic vinaigrette).</p>
<p id="p293"><span class="keyword">Post-workout (within 30 minutes) &gt;&gt;</span> Consume a protein shake or balanced intake of protein and carbohydrates to repair your muscles overnight and restore glycogen that was used during your practice or game, so that you are prepared to get after it tomorrow! (See the protein-shake recipes that follow for recovery nutrition.)</p>
<p><span class="keyword heading">NIGHTTIME (BEFORE BED) SNACK &gt;&gt;</span> The myths that you should not eat after 7 PM or that you should not eat 2 hours before bed do not apply to you! You are an athlete and therefore you need to fuel your body properly to optimize your athletic performance.</p>

<p><span class="keyword heading">EXAMPLE NIGHTTIME SNACK MEAL &gt;&gt;</span> 1–2 table-spoons of almond butter or natural peanut butter, with ½ cup organic raspberries or strawberries on the side. Optional: Add 1 cup nonfat plain Greek yogurt.</p>


<h3 class="runin-head">HYDRATION</h3>

<ul>
	<li>14–22 ounces (2+ cups) 2 hours before exercise</li>
	<li>8 ounces 10–20 minutes before exercise</li>
	<li>6-8 ounces every 15–20 minutes during practice</li>
	<li>16–24 ounces (2–3 cups) for every 1 pound lost within 2 hours after practice</li>
	<li>Sodium (Na) - 0.5–0.7 g/L in exercise lasting &gt;1 hour (500 mg Na/hour for distance runners/heavy sweaters) - Increased risk of hyponatremia (low sodium can have dangerous effects on the body)</li>
	<li>Drink fluids with carbohydrates and electrolytes if exercise is longer than 1 hour, for improved performance and decreased fatigue.</li>
</ul>

<p id="p294">Consume 24 ounces of fluid for every pound lost via sweat. Pay attention to internal cues (e.g., headaches) or external cues (e.g., urine color) to monitor hydration status. If you have a headache, you are most likely already &gt;10% dehydrated. Your urine should be light yellow color or clear. If it is dark yellow or black, you are dehydrated and need to increase your fluids (and overall electrolytes, including sodium, potassium, calcium, and magnesium) drastically.</p>


<h3 class="runin-head">PHYSICAL/MENTAL EFFECTS OF DEHYDRATION</h3>

<ul>
	<li>Decreased muscle strength, speed, stamina, energy, cognitive processes</li>
	<li>Increased risk of injury</li>
</ul>

<h3 class="runin-head">BENEFITS OF ADEQUATE FLUIDS</h3>

<ul>
	<li>Decreased heart rate, perceived exertion</li>
	<li>Increased stroke volume, cardiac output, skin blood flow, and improved athletic performance</li>
</ul>

<h3 class="runin-head">ADDITIONAL TIPS AND TRICKS</h3>

<p><span class="keyword heading">AVOID “BOTTOM-HEAVY DIETS.”</span> This is defined as eating ⅔ of your total daily caloric intake in the after-noon or evening (anytime 3PM to 10PM). The timing of your meals will affect your body composition.</p>
<p>For example, studies show that an athlete who consumes a “bottom-heavy diet” will have a higher body-fat percentage than another athlete who consumes his or her meals throughout the day every 3–4 hours (even if both athletes are consuming the same total calories <a id="p295"/>and following the same training regimen). You need to eat to fuel your body when your body needs the energy for optimal metabolism, for lean muscle gain, and to optimize performance. You may be skilled in soccer, but mastering your nutrition will help take you to the next level!</p>
<p><span class="keyword heading">AVOID PACKAGED, PROCESSED, AND REFINED FOODS THAT ARE HIGH IN SUGAR OR TRANS FAT.</span> These foods are high in preservatives and artificial ingredients that our bodies do not process well and may cause an upset stomach. These foods may provide convenience and quick energy, but they will ultimately lead to a “crash” or feeling of fatigue about 1 hour after consumption due to the quick rise and fall effect of your blood-sugar levels.</p>
<p>Artificial trans-fatty acids are an unhealthy fat that is added to foods to increase their shelf life (how long they are “safe” to eat). Be sure to look at the ingredient list below the nutrition facts label for “partially or fully hydrogenated oils,” which means there is trans fat in the product and therefore you should avoid it. Trans fat raises your LDL (bad cholesterol) and lowers your HDL (good cholesterol), which can increase your risk of heart disease, stroke, and type II diabetes.</p>


<table id="p296">
	<thead>
		<tr>
			<th><span>Macronutrients</span></th>
			<th><span>Healthy Foods for Lean-Muscle Gain</span></th>
		</tr>
	</thead>
	<tbody>
		<tr>
			<th>Carbohydrates</th>
			<td>Fresh and dried fruits, fresh vegetables (peas, corn, potatoes topped with extra virgin olive oil), whole-grain breads, cornbread, multigrain muffins, bagels, brown/wild/jasmine rice, pasta/gluten-free pasta, cereal, steel-cut oatmeal, granola</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<th>Proteins</th>
			<td>Eggs, chicken, turkey, fish, tuna, salmon, lean beef, pork tenderloin, Greek yogurt, milk (or nondairy high protein substitutes), beans, soybeans, nuts, nut butters, seeds, seed butters</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<th>Fats</th>
			<td>Nuts and seeds (flaxseeds, chia seeds, hemp seeds, pumpkin seeds, etc.) olives, hummus, avocados, guacamole, oils (olive, canola, flaxseed, grapeseed, coconut, etc.) cheese</td>
		</tr>
	</tbody>
</table>




<p id="p297"><span class="keyword heading">TIMING OF MEALS (FOR LEVELS 1–5) &gt;&gt;</span> Eating smaller and more frequent meals is ideal for proper digestion, metabolism, and lean-muscle weight gain. Eating frequently yields high energy and stable blood sugar levels. Waiting too long between meals can lead to lean-muscle breakdown and weight loss. Athletes with poor nutrition are more prone to injury, especially during periods of growth and development or when their bones are strengthening or becoming more dense.</p>


<h3 class="runin-head">NUTRITION REGIMEN: NIGHT BEFORE GAME DAY</h3>

<p>Avoid greasy or fried foods that are high in fat. Avoid high amounts of sugar, or refined carbohydrates, which can also make you feel sluggish. “Carb loading” is not necessary. Instead, eat a balanced meal containing lean protein, whole grain carbohydrates, and steamed vegetables. Add a protein shake for dessert (if needed).</p>


<h3 class="runin-head">MACRONUTRIENT SUGGESTIONS</h3>

<p><span class="keyword heading"></span></p>
<p><span class="keyword heading">CARBOHYDRATES &gt;&gt;</span> Higher fiber foods (i.e., lower Glycemic Index), such as whole-grain bread, brown rice, whole-grain pasta, (or gluten-free versions), beans, starchy vegetables (e.g., corn, peas, potatoes), quinoa, and cereal</p>
<p><span class="keyword heading">PROTEINS &gt;&gt;</span> Chicken, turkey, or fish (e.g., wild salmon, tuna, trout, mackerel, or sardines, which are high in heart healthy omega-3 fatty acids)</p>
<p><span class="keyword heading">FATS &gt;&gt;</span> Low-fat cheese, nuts/nut butters (e.g., natural peanut butter or almond butter), avocado, seeds, oils (e.g., extra-virgin olive oil, canola oil, grapeseed oil, flaxseed oil)</p>
<p id="p298"><span class="keyword heading">VEGETABLES &gt;&gt;</span> All green vegetables are preferable</p>


<h3 class="runin-head">IDEAL DINNER MEAL BEFORE GAME DAY #1</h3>

<p><span class="keyword heading">PROTEINS &gt;&gt;</span> Boneless, skinless chicken breast (portion: 3–6 ounces, depending on the athlete level)</p>
<p><span class="keyword heading">CARBOHYDRATES &gt;&gt;</span> Brown rice (portion: ½–1 ½ cups cooked, depending on the athlete level)</p>
<p><span class="keyword heading">VEGETABLES &gt;&gt;</span> Side salad with organic spinach leaves, chopped cucumbers, carrots, tomato, and a light olive oil and vinegar dressing</p>


<h3 class="runin-head">IDEAL DINNER MEAL BEFORE GAME DAY #2</h3>

<p><span class="keyword heading">PROTEINS &gt;&gt;</span> Ground turkey (portion: 3–6 ounces,</p>
<p>depending on the athlete level)</p>
<p><span class="keyword heading">CARBOHYDRATES &gt;&gt;</span> Baked potato (1 medium-sized) with a dollop of low-fat Greek yogurt instead of sour cream (optional) OR brown rice and quinoa pasta (portion: ½–1 ½ cups cooked, depending on the athlete level)</p>
<p><span class="keyword heading">VEGETABLES &gt;&gt;</span> Steamed broccoli and mushrooms (portion: 1–2 cups, depending on the athlete level)</p>


<h3 class="runin-head">NUTRITION REGIMEN: MORNING OF GAME</h3>

<p>Avoid high fat or high protein foods the morning of game day, which are more difficult for the body to digest. Carbohydrates provide the best source of readily available energy for the body. Dairy products can be tolerated in a small amount, but when consumed in a <a id="p299"/>larger amount can cause gastrointestinal discomfort (upset stomach). The body will use carbohydrates as its first source of energy.</p>


<h3 class="runin-head">MACRONUTRIENT SUGGESTIONS</h3>

<p><span class="keyword heading">CARBOHYDRATES &gt;&gt;</span> Lower fiber foods (higher Glyce-mic Index), cream of rice, oatmeal with 2 grams of fiber or less, rice cereal (dry), bread (with 2 grams of fiber), or plain bagel</p>
<p><span class="keyword heading">PROTEINS &gt;&gt;</span> Eggs/egg whites, protein shakes (made with whey protein, pea protein, vegan protein, hemp protein, etc.), low-fat plain Greek yogurt</p>
<p><span class="keyword heading">FATS &gt;&gt;</span> Nuts/nut butters (e.g., peanut butter, almond butter, cashew butter, sunflower-seed butter), seeds, avocado</p>
<p><span class="keyword heading">FRUITS &gt;&gt;</span> 1 medium-sized piece of fresh fruit (e.g., banana, apple, kiwi, peach, pear, nectarine, plum, etc.)</p>


<h3 class="runin-head">IDEAL BREAKFAST MEAL ON GAME DAY #1</h3>

<p>Peanut butter (or almond butter) and jelly (or honey) sandwich on whole-wheat bread with a sliced banana</p>


<h3 class="runin-head">IDEAL BREAKFAST MEAL ON GAME DAY #2</h3>

<p>1 cup low-fat, plain Greek yogurt with ½ cup organic blueberries, or a banana with 1 cup Rice Chex cereal. Avoid high-fiber cereals, such as Kashi, which will cause an upset stomach.</p>
<p><span class="keyword heading">NOTE &gt;&gt;</span> Greek yogurt contains 20 grams of protein per <a id="p300"/>cup and healthy probiotics, which increase immunity and aid in proper digestion. It is important to get the low-fat or nonfat version (to avoid the high saturated-fat content) and plain (to avoid the 20–22 grams of added sugar in the flavored varieties).</p>


<h3 class="runin-head">CAFFEINE</h3>

<p>Caffeine has been proven to be one of the best ergogenic aids and is known to help athletes train harder and longer. Caffeine stimulates the brain and contributes to clearer thinking and greater concentration. If you like coffee or tea, consume caffeine at least 1 hour before a practice or game. <span class="keyword">Recommendation: 1</span><span class="keyword">–</span><span class="keyword">3 milligrams per kilogram of body weight</span> (e.g., 200 milligrams for a 150-pound woman). Do not consume caffeine in the form of energy drinks or soda, because they have concentrated sources of sugar, which cancel out the health benefits. Coffee and green tea are natural sources of caffeine and provide a high antioxidant value (cancer-fighting). Make sure to only add a dash of honey, agave, or milk (no added sugar).</p>


<h3 class="runin-head">HYDRATION</h3>

<ul>
	<li>14–22 ounces (2+ cups) 2 hours before exercise</li>
	<li>8 ounces 10–20 minutes before exercise</li>
	<li>6–8 ounces every 15–20 minutes during practice</li>
	<li>16–24 ounces (2–3 cups) for every 1 pound lost, within 2 hours after practice</li>
	<li>Sodium (Na)- 0.5–0.7 g/L in exercise lasting &gt;1 hour (500 mg Na/hour for distance runners/heavy sweaters)- Increased risk hyponatremia (low sodium can have dangerous effects on the body)</li>
</ul>

<p id="p301" class="citation">* Drink fluids with carbohydrate and electrolytes if exercise is longer than 1 hour, for improved performance and decreased fatigue</p>

<p>Consume 24 ounces of fluid for every 1 pound lost via sweat. Pay attention to internal cues (i.e., headaches) or external cues (i.e., urine color) to monitor hydration status. If you have a headache, you are most likely already more than 10% dehydrated. Your urine should be a light yellow color or clear. If it is dark yellow or black, you are dehydrated and need to increase your fluids (and overall electrolytes, including sodium, potassium, calcium, and magnesium) drastically.</p>
<p><span class="runin-head">Physical/Mental Effects of Dehydration</span></p>

<ul>
	<li>Decreased muscle strength, speed, stamina, energy, cognitive processes</li>
	<li>Increased risk of injury</li>
</ul>

<h3 class="runin-head">BENEFITS OF ADEQUATE FLUIDS</h3>

<ul>
	<li>Decreased heart rate, perceived exertion</li>
	<li>Increased stroke volume, cardiac output, skin blood flow, and improved athletic performance</li>
</ul>

<h3 class="runin-head">TRAVEL NUTRITION (I.E., WHAT TO EAT WHILE ON THE ROAD)</h3>



<h3>TRAIL MIX &gt;&gt;</h3>

<ul>
	<li>Trader Joe’s Trek Mix—sold in individual packs </li>
	<li>Trader Joe’s raw mixed nuts</li>
	<li>Make your own nut trail mix with nuts (choose from almonds, pistachios, pecans, walnuts, hazelnuts, <a id="p302"/>Brazil nuts, cashews) and dried fruit (choose from cranberries, raisins, apricots, blueberries, goji berries, acai berries, mango pieces), and mix up to make your own </li>
	<li>100% whole-wheat or Ezekiel 4:9 bread, with all natural peanut butter or almond butter (optional: add a sliced banana and raspberry jam)</li>
	<li>Granola bar (choose one that is higher in protein and carbohydrate, and low in fat, because fat is slower digesting and will not provide the quick energy you need for practice/your game)</li>
</ul>

<h3>TRAIL MIX &gt;&gt;</h3>

<ul>
	<li>Think Thin protein bar (gluten-free, sugar-free), Pure Protein bar, Strong and KIND bar, Greens+ protein and energy bar, Kashi granola bar (many flavors) </li>
	<li>Dry cereal (containing more than 3 g fiber per serving) can be eaten dry or with ½ cup almond milk (examples: Kashi Go Lean, Kashi Crunch, Kashi Heart to Heart, Optimum Wheat, Optimum Slim, Shredded Wheat, Nature’s Best and Nature’s Path cereals, Barbara’s Shredded Spoonfuls, Barbara’s Puffins, and Kellogg’s Special K or Rice Chex/Puffs if you’re looking for a lower fiber cereal, etc.)</li>
	<li>Healthier chips / crackers: Reduced Guilt pita chips, Lundberg brown rice chips, Trader Joe’s spicy soy flaxseed chips, vegetable chips, raisin rosemary crisps, popcorn chips, edamame crackers, bite-sized pita crackers, Blue Diamond nut thins, Kashi 7-grain crackers, high-fiber Wasa crackers, Mary’s Gone gluten-free or whole-wheat crackers— mix any of these with hummus, yogurt chive dip, spinach dip, fresh salsa, or homemade guacamole </li>
	<li>Drinkable yogurt or Chobani or Fage or Trader Joe’s single-serving Greek yogurts (if eaten within 2 hours)</li>
	<li id="p303">Graham crackers with a spread of almond butter or peanut butter on top </li>
	<li>String cheese (if eaten within 2 hours)</li>
	<li>Beef jerky or low-sodium turkey jerky with no nitrates or preservatives added</li>
	<li>Fresh portable fruit (i.e., apple, banana, pear, peach, nectarine, apricot, orange, blood orange, tangerine, plum, grapes, kiwi, berries, etc.) </li>
	<li>English muffin with wheat wrap with almond butter or natural peanut butter </li>
	<li>Multigrain, sesame seed, or 100% whole-wheat bagel with part skim mozzarella cheese or reduced-fat vegetable cream cheese (can replace with a spread of hummus or Greek yogurt if eaten within the hour or two that it was prepared)</li>
	<li>Cooked quinoa (place in large container and snack on with veggies) </li>
	<li>Yogurt-covered raisins or pretzels</li>
	<li>Hard-boiled eggs (if eaten within 2 hours) </li>
	<li>Build your own sandwich: Whole-grain dinner roll or 2 slices whole-wheat bread with lean protein (sliced turkey, chicken, or ham), 1 slice low-fat provolone cheese, mustard or hummus, lettuce, tomato, and avocado</li>
	<li>Almond butter and jelly/raspberry preserve sandwich on wheat bread or Ezekiel 4:9 bread for breakfast/snack on the go</li>
	<li>Whole-wheat pretzels (dip in all natural peanut butter for sweet and salty taste) or peanut-butter filled pretzels </li>
	<li>Meal replacement shakes (made with water or coconut water and whey protein, RAW protein, or Trader Joe’s pure protein shakes, which have 21 grams of protein and come in chocolate or vanilla flavors). </li>
</ul>

<p><span class="keyword heading">NOTE &gt;&gt;</span> Shakes require a mixer/shaker to blend the protein and beverage.</p>

<p id="p304"><span class="keyword heading">MILK PROTEINS &gt;&gt;</span> Whey and casein stimulate muscle protein synthesis and prevent muscle breakdown.</p>

<h3 class="runin-head">HIGH-PROTEIN SHAKE RECIPES</h3>

<p>Add natural whey protein or plant-based protein (pea protein or vegan Vega) powder to any of the following smoothies that don’t already include protein powder. You can alternate between the following milks and milk substitutes: nonfat organic milk, 2% organic milk, or unsweetened versions of almond, coconut, hemp, or rice milk.</p>
<p>Tips to increase calories include: Use a larger serving of the nuts or nut butters and seeds or seed butters. To reduce carbohydrates, use a smaller serving of fresh or dried fruit (bananas, dates, etc.). To increase fiber and nutrients without adding calories, add more leafy greens such as kale or spinach.</p>

<h3 class="runin-head">THE ENERGIZER</h3>

<ul>
	<li>8 ounces unsweetened coconut milk</li>
	<li>½ banana</li>
	<li>2 tablespoons hemp seeds</li>
	<li>1–2 tablespoons chia seeds</li>
	<li>2 dates</li>
	<li>Sprinkle of nutmeg</li>
</ul>

<p><span class="keyword heading">NUTRITION FACTS &gt;&gt;</span> 400 calories, 16 grams fat (mono- and polyunsaturated fat), 25 grams carbohydrate, 13 grams fiber, 18 grams protein (add 10 grams protein powder as needed to make it 28 grams protein total)</p>

<h3 id="p305" class="runin-head">PROTEIN POWER UP</h3>

<ul>
	<li>8 oz. Silk unsweetened almond milk</li>
	<li>1 scoop whey or pea protein powder</li>
	<li>½ c. nonfat plain Greek yogurt </li>
	<li>2 tbsp. almond butter</li>
	<li>½ banana </li>
	<li>Sprinkle of cinnamon </li>
</ul>

<p><span class="keyword heading">NUTRITION FACTS &gt;&gt;</span> 350 calories, 20 grams fat (mono- and polyunsaturated fat), 14 grams carbohydrate, 5 grams fiber, 43 grams protein</p>


<h3 class="runin-head">BERRY BLAST</h3>

<ul>
	<li>8 oz. Silk unsweetened almond milk</li>
	<li>½ c. blueberries</li>
	<li>½ c. raspberries</li>
	<li>½ c. blackberries </li>
	<li>1 oz. raw, unsalted walnuts</li>
	<li>1 tbsp. ground flaxseeds (Bob’s Red Mill brand)</li>
</ul>

<p><span class="keyword heading">NUTRITION FACTS &gt;&gt;</span> 400 calories, 18 grams fat (mono- and polyunsaturated fat), 30 grams carbohydrate, 18 grams fiber, 10 grams protein (add 10–20 grams protein powder as needed to make it 20–30 grams protein total)</p>

<h3 id="p306" class="runin-head">IMMUNE BOOSTER</h3>

<ul>
	<li>8 oz. unsweetened coconut milk</li>
	<li>1 scoop pea protein powder</li>
	<li>1 c. chopped kale</li>
	<li>½ c. frozen mango chunks</li>
	<li>2 dates</li>
	<li>Slivers of fresh ginger</li>
	<li>Sprinkle of coconut flakes</li>
</ul>
<p><span class="keyword heading">NUTRITION FACTS &gt;&gt;</span> 360 calories, 8.5 grams fat (mono- and polyunsaturated fat), 35 grams carbohydrate, 10 grams fiber, 37 grams protein</p>


<h3 class="runin-head">ANTI-INFLAMMATORY</h3>

<ul>
	<li>8 oz. coconut water</li>
	<li>1–2 tsp. maca powder</li>
	<li>1 tsp. turmeric powder </li>
	<li>½ avocado</li>
	<li>½ c. frozen pineapple chunks</li>
	<li>½ c. frozen organic blueberries </li>
	<li>1 c. spinach leaves</li>
	<li>Touch of mint </li>
</ul>
<p><span class="keyword heading">NUTRITION FACTS &gt;&gt;</span> 260 calories, 13 grams fat (monounsaturated fat), 31 grams carbohydrate, 14 grams fiber, 8 grams protein (add scoop of protein powder, 20 grams, to make 28 grams protein total)</p>

<h3 id="p307" class="runin-head">DETOX</h3>

<ul>
	<li>8 oz. coconut water</li>
	<li>1 banana</li>
	<li>½ pear</li>
	<li>½ c. chopped cucumber</li>
	<li>1 c. chopped kale</li>
	<li>1 fresh squeezed lemon</li>
	<li>Touch of cilantro</li>
	<li>Sprinkle of cayenne pepper (optional for spice/heat)</li>
</ul>

<p><span class="keyword heading">NUTRITION FACTS &gt;&gt;</span> 240 calories, 0 grams fat, 37 grams carbohydrate, 8 grams fiber, 7.5 grams protein (add scoop of protein powder, 20 grams, to make ~28 grams protein total)</p>


<h3 class="runin-head">ANTIOXIDANT</h3>

<ul>
	<li>8 oz. unsweetened coconut milk</li>
	<li>½ c. strawberries</li>
	<li>½ c. blueberries</li>
	<li>1 banana</li>
	<li>½ c. shredded carrot</li>
	<li>1 c. spinach leaves</li>
	<li>1 tbsp. goji berries </li>
</ul>

<p><span class="keyword heading">NUTRITION FACTS &gt;&gt;</span> 340 calories, 4.5 grams fat (monounsaturated fat), 45 grams carbohydrate, 25 grams fiber, 9 grams protein (add scoop of protein powder, 20 grams, to make 29 grams protein total)</p>

<h3 id="p308" class="runin-head">BLISS</h3>

<ul>
	<li>8 oz. Silk unsweetened vanilla almond milk</li>
	<li>1 scoop vanilla whey protein powder</li>
	<li>1 tbsp. cacao powder</li>
	<li>½ banana</li>
	<li>2 dates</li>
	<li>1 oz. cashews </li>
	<li>Sprinkle of cinnamon and nutmeg </li>
</ul>

<p><span class="keyword heading">NUTRITION FACTS &gt;&gt;</span> 375 calories, 20 grams fat (monounsaturated fat), 30 grams carbohydrate, 12 grams fiber, 35 grams protein</p>
</section>
</body></html>