<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"/>
<title>The Complete Athlete</title>
<link href="../Styles/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section id="p80" class="featured">
<h1>MIA HAMM</h1>

<p>As early as possible, parents should try to find the proper, age-appropriate balance between how much they should be involved and how much they should step back and let the child learn how to handle things. Sometimes you see parents who want involvement in the sport far more than the child does, or vice-versa; other times, you see children who want to participate but have no interest in taking any personal responsibility and just rely on the parents to do absolutely everything. I believe that it needs to be a collaborative effort: Children need to learn how to take initiative for themselves gradually, and parents need to learn when to carry, when to push, and when to step back. It’s a process, but it’s a vital part of raising a complete athlete.</p>
<p>Another important thing to remember is the child, parent, and coaches each have a different perspective and experience with each practice or game. Most children go from being a competitor back to being a kid as soon as they get in the car to go home; they tend to leave the game on the field and move on to the next thing easily. They might be sad about a loss or a practice that didn’t go well, but they generally don’t dwell on those disappointments. As a child just learning the game and figuring out how all the different rules and techniques work together, you are usually just doing the best you can to keep up with the ball and trying to score or strip the ball from your opponent. And when the game is over, you’re not worried about its implications.</p>
<p>Parents, on the other hand, don’t seem to be able to make the switch from “parent-spectator” to just “parent” nearly as quickly. My parents liked to discuss the games on the <a id="p81"/>way home—why one player made the decisions she did or what a team’s style of play was like. Sometimes, that made me really uncomfortable as I listened. I appreciated that they cared about my sport, but sometimes it felt as if that was the only thing on their minds. It was difficult to put into words at that age, but I often felt disloyal to a teammate or coach if we were dissecting his or her performance on the field, because when you’re young, you base your decisions on what you see, not necessarily what you have experienced—because it probably hasn’t been much by that point. In other words, you are making the best call you can in the moment, rather than thinking about big picture or strategy. Often, that leads to choices that a more mature player might not have made, and parents often forget that. I would encourage parents to show their enthusiasm and excitement for their children during the game, but not to allow the game to follow you home.</p>
<p>The same is true of coaches. Of course your job is to educate your players about the hows and whys of the game; but at this level, it is too much to ask them to stick around for a long time after a game to rehash all the plays or enter into a deep analysis of what won or lost the game for your team. That deeper post-game analysis is your job as a coach, but it is simply not where your team is.</p>
<p>Parents and coaches would be well-served to keep this in mind. Your involvement, excitement, and investment are admirable, and I applaud you for that! But in your effort to show interest, please don’t lose sight of the fact that children sometimes have a better grasp than we do on the fact that it is just a game and that there are other things worth focusing on when it’s all over.</p>
</section>
</body></html>