<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"/>
<title>The Complete Athlete</title>
<link href="../Styles/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section>
<h2>RESPECT</h2>

<p><span class="keyword">Respect</span> means treating others in ways that show they have worth and value, and being considerate of other people’s feelings. At Level 1, youth soccer players should always treat their coaches with respect. These are the people who have taken time out of their busy lives to pass on their love for and knowledge of soccer, and to provide opportunities for players to learn more about the game and to play well. For those same reasons, they should treat all game officials with respect as well.</p>


<h3>HOW TO DEMONSTRATE RESPECT FOR YOUR COACHES &gt;&gt;</h3>

<ul>
	<li>When you arrive at a game or practice, greet your coach politely.</li>
	<li>Find out how your coach prefers to be addressed, <a id="p23"/>whether by his or her first name, by Mr. or Mrs. ________, or simply as Coach. Always address your coach the way he or she prefers to be addressed.</li>
	<li>Listen carefully and don’t fidget when your coaches are speaking.</li>
	<li>When your coaches are speaking directly to you, look them in the eye and don’t interrupt. </li>
	<li>Don’t talk back or sass your coaches or game officials.</li>
	<li>Follow directions without complaining; in other words, do what you’re told to do.</li>
</ul>

<p><span class="keyword heading">ATHLETES &gt;&gt;</span> One of the greatest teams I ever coached had a level of respect that was just exceptional. The moment they left their cars in the parking lot, they always came to find me. They showed up early to practice to help me set up. They always started with, “Hello, Coach! How are you doing? How’s your day?” Even at a very young age—most of these girls weren’t even in high school yet—this particular group of young ladies had an incredible sense of respect.</p>
<p>And it wasn’t just for me; they carried that respect, onto the sidelines and the field, toward one another. It was amazing to watch them during practice; when someone made a mistake or passed the ball to the wrong player, the girls always stayed positive and encouraged one another: “No problem! Keep working hard!”</p>
<p>After practice was done, they stayed and lent a hand packing up, helping me take my gear to the car and never leaving—every single one of them—without saying, “Have a great day, Coach! Thank you.” That was one of the most important things for me to see. Those girls <a id="p24"/>weren’t just there for the big moments; they were really invested in every aspect of how the team operated. Setting up and taking down aren’t really the exciting or glamorous parts of playing a sport, but they all pitched in because they saw what needed to be done and they understood why it mattered.</p>
<p>That is something I will always take with me from that team. As young as they were, the respect they showed to me as a coach and to each other was remarkable and really made our time together a joy. <span class="attribution">—Walid</span></p>
<p><span class="keyword heading">PARENTS &gt;&gt;</span> Attitude starts while you’re in the car on the way to practice or a game. Before you even get to the field, your child is either preparing to get the most out of what is coming or she is not. We see this a lot with younger players, especially. If they have an argument with their parents, they usually get out of the car pouting or angry, and that affects the place where their mind is, which in turn affects the way they play that day. However, when an athlete climbs out of the car and is smiling and positive and ready to focus on the task at hand, they usually have great practices.</p>
<p><span class="keyword heading">COACHES &gt;&gt;</span> Sometimes you have to single out individuals at half-time to help them erase whatever mistakes from the first half they are still replaying.</p>
<p>I remember in one of the games, we had a penalty kick late in the first half. One of the top players stepped upto take it—and she missed it. The referee whistled the end of the half, and then we were immediately in our half-time break, trying to talk to the team about what we should be doing in the second half. All the players were focused on what I was saying, except for the girl who <a id="p25"/>had just missed the shot. Her head was down, her shoulders were slumped—you could just see her entire demeanor was shut down and she wasn’t hearing a word we were saying. After I finished talking to the whole team, I went to her individually and said, “Hey, look me in the eyes. Look me in the eyes.” She lifted her head up and I could see how upset she was, but I told her, “You’ve got to put it behind you and we’ve got to move on. The most important play in the game is the next play. You’ve got to respect the game and this is part of the game. This is simply one of the ups and downs of the game.”</p>
<p>I’ll never forget when she looked me in the eyes and saw that I was focused only on her and didn’t value her less as a player or as a person, and that I still needed her to perform her part for the team. She took a deep breath and was able to put everything behind her and ended up being one of the biggest impact players with how she stepped up in the second half and helped us win the game. It was a significant moment in reminding me of the importance of helping each player get her head right in the middle of a game. How the team works together matters, but each member needs that individualized attention sometimes, too. <span class="attribution">—Walid</span></p>
</section>
</body></html>