<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"/>
<title>The Complete Athlete</title>
<link href="../Styles/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section>
<h2 id="p26">SPORTSMANSHIP</h2>

<p>Good <span class="keyword">Sportsmanship</span> starts with respect for one’s teammates, opponents, coaches, and officials. It also includes playing with integrity. Playing with integrity means following the rules and never cheating.</p>
<p>At Level 1, a youth soccer player should be familiar enough with the basic rules of the game to always play by those rules. [To review basic rules, go to Appendix 1.] She should never try to bend the rules or cheat. In addition, she should always abide by what the coaches and officials say in terms of penalties and not argue with them. After all, they know more than she does when it comes to what’s fair and what’s not in the game of soccer.</p>
<p><span class="keyword heading">PARENTS &gt;&gt;</span> Respect for referees and coaches is essential and at these younger ages in Level 1, it really starts with the parents.</p>
<p>You can see the behavior at any youth soccer game. Who are parents attacking the most? All you hear is, “Oh, referee, that was a foul, that was offside, that was… .” Whatever it is, there are always parents yelling at the ref that it was a bad call. The players hear their parents complaining about everything, and they start imitating their parents and showing disrespect for the referees.</p>
<p>Here’s the thing: As the game goes on and the ref has had just about enough of everybody yelling at him or her, if there is a call that could go one way or another, the ref is going to give it to the team whose parents and players have shown him or her the most respect.</p>

<p id="p27">It’s no different than going to school. Parents don’t come into school and yell at the teacher because that would model to their children that a teacher is not someone worthy of respect. The same thing should be true on the soccer field. The parents have got to set the example by sitting down and supporting whatever the referee decision is and by being positive with their kids. The players need to understand that the referee is no different than a teacher or a policeman or anybody who’s an authority figure; they should treat him or her with the utmost respect. If you disagree with something, you let your coach know; you don’t throw a fit yourself.</p>
<p>As a parent, that must be a pillar for your behavior at games, starting at the lowest level. If you demonstrate respect for referees and coaches, that is a practice that will become a habit for your child as she develops as an athlete. If you are always complaining about every call, always complaining if things don’t go your way, always yelling that the ref is clueless, then your child is going to believe that is what she should be doing as well. Those habits are going to stay with her for a lifetime.</p>
<p>But if you model from the beginning respect for the referee, respect for coaches, respect for teammates, those are tremendous habits to have, and they’ll follow your child the rest of her life and give her a great reputation. Reputations can follow you. Referees talk to each other and they can give each other the heads-up on a team or a player. They say, “This is the kid with the attitude,” or “That team has irrational parents.” Beyond the importance of raising a child who shows appropriate respect, there is simply the fact that a bad reputation can mean iffy calls don’t go your way. Consider both the big and small picture when you are tempted to yell at a ref!</p>

<p id="p28"><span class="keyword heading">COACHES &gt;&gt;</span> One of the greatest things you can teach athletes is sportsmanship. At a very young age, it is important that athletes learn that sportsmanship is a huge part of competition. After every game, you need to teach players to go over immediately and shake hands with the opposing team, no matter the outcome of the game. This needs to become second nature so that players do it automatically: show respect for every single player on the other side, walking to the referees and shaking their hands and thanking them for refereeing the game, too. This is so important to stress with your athletes.</p>
<p>A few years ago when I was coaching my U10 team, the outcome of the championship game didn’t go the way we wanted—we lost in a heartbreaker in the last five minutes of the game. When the referee blew the final whistle, everyone’s head was just hanging. That is when one of our team leaders stepped up and took the initiative to gather everyone into a circle and to tell them they had all played well<span class="Em-Dash CharOverride-11">;</span> then she told her teammates to keep their heads up and congratulate the other team for winning. It was just so amazing, as a coach, to watch a young person immediately spring into action and rally her team to show good sportsmanship. She had learned that at an early age so that it was second nature. That is so refreshing to see, because it will take an athlete a long, long way in her career. <span class="attribution">—Ziad</span></p>
</section>
</body></html>