<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"/>
<title>The Complete Athlete</title>
<link href="../Styles/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section>
<p id="p21"><span class="keyword heading">ATHLETES &gt;&gt;</span> At half-time, your attitude has to be positive. Just because you missed a goal or allowed the other team to score or missed a tackle or messed up in any way, you can’t come into the team huddle at half-time and hang your head or sulk while the coach is talking. You’re not just hurting yourself, you’re putting yourself in a position to fail. You’re hurting your teammates because they see how you are behaving and, if you’re a leader, your conduct brings them down, too. The focus of half-time should not be you—it should be what your team needs to do in the second half.</p>
<p><span class="keyword heading">COACHES &gt;&gt;</span> The first thing a coach should do at half-time after a rough start to the game is to calm the team down. The emphasis should never be on the failures and disappointments, because this can get the players angry with one another. Make sure that the focus is always on having a positive attitude and clear sense of the game plan going forward; if you don’t do that, or if you allow one player to mope, it is going to affect the whole team and the team is not going to recover.</p>
<p class="athlete"><span class="keyword heading">KASSI MCCLUSKIE &gt;&gt;</span> It’s great for parents to en-courage their children to try something new and to stick it out for a little bit while they get used to it, before deciding if they want to quit and try something else instead or not. But sometimes, parents can push their children into an activity where the child has no interest or natural ability, all because the parent wants to live vicariously through the child. I would encourage parents to periodically check with their children to gauge their attitude toward the sport and to see if their heart is really in it or if they might be better suited to try something else.</p>
<p id="p22" class="athlete">When I was in elementary school, my mom was worried that my dad might have been pushing me too hard to be an athlete because my dad had been a star hockey player until an injury killed his professional chances. Dad said he was just pushing me because he wanted me to be the best I could be, but he didn’t want to keep doing it if I wasn’t enjoying soccer. He decided to try to figure out if I was truly playing for myself by asking me, “Hey, since this is all so expensive, if we couldn’t afford it, what would you do instead? Would you stop playing soccer? Would you decide to do something else?” I answered, “You can’t take my dream away.” And my dad said later that he was so happy to know, then, that his daughter really was playing for herself and not out of a sense of obligation to anyone else.</p>
</section>
</body></html>