<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"/>
<title>The Complete Athlete</title>
<link href="../Styles/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section>
<h2>PROFESSIONALISM</h2>

<p>Certainly a youth soccer player is not a <span class="keyword">professional</span> in the sense of being paid to play. However, developing the attitude and behaviors of a professional can help her move up more easily through the levels.</p>
<p>Professionals in many fields require some kind of proper attire and appearance. For example, most lawyers wear suits. Many doctors wear white coats. At Level 1, a youth soccer player should always arrive on time with all her equipment at hand. She should also have a neat and clean appearance, including a uniform that has been recently washed and shoes that are properly tied.</p>

<p><span class="keyword heading">COACHES &gt;&gt;</span> Teamwork is so important and it is something we have to encourage in our children from day one, because it doesn’t always come naturally to kids. Especially at the younger ages, there always seems to be one player whose skills are a bit ahead and she can dribble around everybody. In a game, whenever she gets the ball, she doesn’t pass it—she just runs with it, scores, and does the same thing the next time her feet touch the ball. Sometimes she misses, but every time she gets the ball she just keeps going the whole way. At half-time, <a id="p30"/>I have to remind her to use her teammates. The best example I have to illustrate the point to the kids is to pick up a pencil or stick and show them how easily it breaks by itself. If I put three together, it is much harder to break them. If I bundle eleven together, it is impossible. I have each child try to break it and they see how strong the sticks are together. I explain to them that is what will happen if we play as a team—we will be so much harder to break.</p>
<p>It’s not a bad idea to remind parents of this, either, since they are often the ones on the sidelines yelling at their daughter to run with the ball. Of course we want the points for our side, but if that one-star player gets tired or hurt and no one else has had a chance to handle the ball in a game situation, what then? We are all proud of our kids and want them to shine, but it is essential that they learn how to work with one another so that the whole team can achieve even greater success by combining their talents. <span class="attribution">—Walid</span></p>
<p class="athlete"><span class="keyword heading">KASSI MCCLUSKIE &gt;&gt;</span> One of the most important things I learned in my playing career was when my coach told us there were five core values, and if we all demonstrated them as a team, we would be successful. They were hard work, teamwork, concentration, discipline, and preparation. We had to memorize those five things and read things our coach had for us on each characteristic. She explained the significance of each one on our personal and our team performance, and made sure that we had at least a basic understanding of each concept.</p>
<p class="athlete">I was very young when those ideas were first introduced, and I don’t think I really appreciated them at the time. But I had internalized the idea that hard work was an <a id="p31"/>ingredient to success, that teamwork was an essential element in a strong group, that if I paid attention to what I was learning and had self-discipline, ate right, got enough sleep, and practiced what I needed to—this would all contribute to my overall success. My understanding grew as I did, and now I can see how those five values have played a part not only in every team of which I’ve been a part, from middle school through college, but also in every project I’ve attempted, every interview I’ve ever done, and every job I’ve ever held.</p>
</section>
</body></html>