<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"/>
<title>The Complete Athlete</title>
<link href="../Styles/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section>
<h2 id="p42">HYDRATION</h2>

<p>All athletes need to drink water before, during, and after practices and games. This is especially important on days when both temperatures and humidity levels are high. If a youth soccer player does not drink enough water, she could suffer from dehydration. Warning signs of dehydration include:</p>

<ul>
	<li>Thirst</li>
	<li>Irritability</li>
	<li>Headache</li>
	<li>Weakness</li>
	<li>Dizziness</li>
	<li>Cramps</li>
	<li>Nausea</li>
	<li>Increased risk of injury</li>
</ul>


<h3>HOW TO MAINTAIN PROPER HYDRATION* &gt;&gt; </h3>

<ul>
	<li>Before exercise, drink 16–20 full ounces within the 2–hour period prior to exercise. </li>
	<li>During exercise, drink 4–6 full ounces. </li>
	<li>After exercise, replace 24 full ounces for every one pound of body weight lost during exercise. </li>
</ul>
	
<p class="citation">Adapted from guidelines provided by the American College of Sports Medicine (ACSM)</p>

<p><span class="keyword heading">PARENTS &gt;&gt;</span> Even at these early stages, hydration is so important, because players this young can still face injury or cramping if they do not have the proper level. Leading into a big event and especially in certain times of the year when the weather plays a huge factor with heat and dryness, athletes have to be proactive about staying hydrated and, at this level, parents <a id="p43"/>are in charge of this. You have to make sure your child is drinking plenty of water leading into game week-end, regardless of the weather. Keep an eye on the fore-cast, though, because if it is going to be hot and dry, you will need to up your child’s water intake even more.</p>
<p>The State Cup happens in June in Southern California, and one year, it was going to be 98 degrees on game day. On Tuesday, I told the players to be sure they drank a lot of water ahead of time, but on Saturday, we had a player pass out during the game. The referee stopped play, and we brought her to the bench to get water in her and check her out. I asked what happened and she said, “I don’t know. I was thirsty, I started getting a headache, then I started feeling weak and dizzy.” I asked her if she had drunk a lot of water leading up to the game; she said she drank a lot … right before the game.</p>
<p>Children can’t always understand the big picture of how the body works and how hydration is a key factor days out from the actual game. That is why parents need to make sure they are monitoring their child’s water intake before any big event. <span class="attribution">—Walid</span></p>
</section>
</body></html>