<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"/>
<title>The Complete Athlete</title>
<link href="../Styles/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section>
<h2 id="p35">PRACTICE</h2>

<p>At Level 1, soccer should revolve around having fun, getting exercise, and learning to be part of a team. Nevertheless, <span class="keyword">Practice</span> is essential for becoming skilled at the techniques of the sport. Practicing also helps a youth athlete avoid injuries and become a better, more confident player.</p>
<p>Team practices usually occur several times per week. They are run by the team coaches, who plan the activities based on the techniques they believe the team needs to work on. Individual practice is performed by a youth athlete outside of regularly scheduled team practice sessions, without the coach and team present.</p>


<h3>HOW MUCH TIME TO PRACTICE &gt;&gt;</h3>

<p>There is little agreement on the exact amount of time a youth athlete should practice on his or her own. Most experts agree that it’s better to be fully engaged in practice for a shorter period of time, rather than mindlessly performing the same technique over and over again. In other words, the type of practice is more important than the amount of time spent practicing. When a youth athlete is able to do the same skill over and over again consistently, he or she has mastered that skill.</p>


<h3>HOW TO PRACTICE &gt;&gt;</h3>

<ul>
	<li>Create a practice schedule that includes the skills you need to improve as well as those you already do well. </li>
	<li>Ask your coaches to provide suggestions for which skills should be practiced. </li>
	<li id="p36">Work on the same skills the coaches emphasize during team practices. </li>
	<li>Concentrate on each activity performed during practice.</li>
</ul>


<h3>SAMPLE PRACTICE SESSION &gt;&gt;</h3>

<ul>
	<li>Warm up and stretch</li>
	<li>Drill 1</li>
	<li>Drill 2</li>
	<li>Drill 3</li>
	<li>Cool down and stretch</li>
</ul>

<p><span class="keyword heading">NOTE &gt;&gt;</span> It is common for youth athletes to feel frustra-ted or want to quit while trying to master a technique. Not only does improvement come with regular practice, but youth athletes will also learn to overcome adversity to achieve goals, a skill that will help them in all areas of life.</p>
<p><span class="keyword heading">PARENTS &gt;&gt;</span> At this level, kids are usually practicing twice a week or once a week, and the coach is there giving them instructions the whole time. That is great for building fundamentals, but if parents want to do some work on their own, try varying up the techniques. If you come up with creative games to practice skills, you can keep the fun and joy in the game at this stage, rather than making it seem like a chore.</p>
<p>One game to try is to practice juggling the ball, trying to beat one another’s records back and forth. Another is just to have a shoot-out, trying to see who can make the most shots out of ten. Another game that we absolutely love is “soccer tennis.” You can start this as early as age 7 and keep playing it through as a professional. Go to a <a id="p37"/>tennis court and let the ball bounce before playing it, and pass it back and forth. When you get to the higher levels, try it with only one bounce or without any bounces at all. But at Level 1, if you let the ball bounce unlimited times while you play it and then pass it back over, you can have a whole lot of fun while still practicing footwork. It creates a bond and gives you extra time with your child.</p>
<p>Don’t make it about “Here’s how you need to cut,” or “No, you missed this shot—how could you? Let’s do 20 more so you can hit that.” It is too early at this stage. What you want to foster is love of the game, so allow your child to have fun when she is doing her extra practices—and create some fun memories together, too!</p>
</section>
</body></html>