<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"/>
<title>The Complete Athlete</title>
<link href="../Styles/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section>
<h2 id="p54">CORE STRENGTH</h2>

<p>Core muscles provide power and stability for every movement in soccer, including kicking, jumping, running, cutting, and throwing. The core is what transfers power into anything you are kicking. <span class="keyword">Core strength</span> is much more than sit-ups and crunches; the core muscles are located in the abdominal area, lower back, and glutes. Planks and low-back knee marches are some of the most effective core workouts; we will do timed tests of these throughout the levels.</p>


<h3>TO PERFORM A PLANK &gt;&gt;</h3>

<ul>
	<li>Get down on the floor with your hands slightly wider than shoulder-width apart and your arms straight and supporting your weight.</li>
	<li>Make sure your body stays straight; your hips shouldn’t be sticking way up in the air or sagging.</li>
	<li>Hold this position for as long as you can.</li>
</ul>

<h3>TO PERFORM AN OVERHEAD MEDICINE- BALL THROW &gt;&gt;</h3>

<ul>
	<li>Stand with both feet on a line, facing forward. </li>
	<li>Hold a medicine ball with both hands and raise it above and behind your head.</li>
	<li>Draw the ball back and throw it as far as possible out in front of you at a 45-degree angle.</li>
	<li>It is okay to follow through past the line after throwing. </li>
</ul>
</section>
</body></html>