<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"/>
<title>The Complete Athlete</title>
<link href="../Styles/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section>
<h2>UPPER-BODY STRENGTH</h2>

<p><span class="keyword">Upper-body strength</span> is also important for soccer, although it is not always the first thing people think of at this age. There is a popular belief that lifting weights can be bad for your health, stunt growth, or even cause you to get bulky. Studies have repeatedly shown the complete opposite of this, and proper strength training actually can help keep you from getting sick as often and promote healthier habits. Throughout the levels, we will test your ability to lift your body weight in exercises like the common push-up and pull-up. We will also check your upper-body strength by including tests such as throwing a small medicine ball.</p>
<h3 id="p51">UPPER-BODY STRENGTH IS DEVELOPED IN TWO DISTINCT WAYS &gt;&gt;</h3>

<p><span class="runin-head">Pull exercises</span><span class="keyword">,</span> in which you are pulling something toward your body, help increase upper-back strength and mobility. The bent-arm hold pull-up is just one type of pull exercise we will test you on to determine your strength.</p>
<p><span class="runin-head">Push exercises</span><span class="keyword">,</span> in which you are pushing something away from your body, are great for increasing strength and mobility in the chest and arms. Some of the best upper-body exercises are body-weight exercises like bent-arm hold pull-ups and push-ups. Bear in mind that bigger is not necessarily better. In fact, bulky upper body muscles can actually decrease mobility.</p>

<h3>TO PERFORM A BENT-ARM HOLD PULL-UP &gt;&gt;</h3>

<ul>
	<li>Grasp an overhead bar using an underhand grip (palms facing toward body).</li>
	<li>Position your body with your arms flexed and your chin clearing the bar. Your chest should be held close to the bar, with your legs hanging straight. </li>
	<li>Hold this position for as long as possible. </li>
</ul>

<h3>TO PERFORM PUSH-UPS &gt;&gt;</h3>

<ul>
	<li>Lie face down on the floor (or mat) with your hands under your shoulders or slightly wider than your chest, fingers straight, legs straight and parallel. </li>
	<li>Straighten your arms, pushing your upper body up and keeping your back and knees straight.</li>
	<li id="p52">Bend your arms to lower your upper body until your elbows are at a 90-degree angle and your upper arms are parallel to the floor.</li>
	<li>Perform as many repetitions as possible without resting.</li>
</ul>
</section>
</body></html>