<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"/>
<title>The Complete Athlete</title>
<link href="../Styles/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section>
<h2 id="p69">FAMILY</h2>

<p>Parents play a number of important roles in the lives of youth soccer players: At Level 1, parents serve as:</p>

<ul>
	<li>Chauffeur, by driving to and from practices and games</li>
	<li>Financer, by paying for equipment, uniforms, team snacks, and more</li>
	<li>Cheerleader and spectator, by taking time out of their busy schedules to attend games and cheer their children on</li>
</ul>

<p>Youth soccer players sometimes feel that being a soccer player is the most important part of their lives. They believe that everyone should drop everything to accommodate their sports activities. What they need to remember is that soccer may not be the most important part of their parents’ lives. After all, parents have other responsibilities to take care of, such as jobs, other children, possibly their own parents, and themselves.</p>
<p>Youth soccer players must remember to show appre-ciation for all the things their parents do to support them as they move up the levels of play. They do this by not acting as if they’re the center of attention and by finding ways to help their parents out.</p>

<h3>DO YOU ACT LIKE YOU’RE THE CENTER OF ATTENTION?</h3>

<p>Do your parents get stressed out when you “suddenly” remember you have to be somewhere? Have any of your siblings missed an activity because you “had” to attend a special practice session that your coach told you about the week before, but that you forgot to mention until five minutes before you had to leave for it?</p>
<p id="p70">If these are common occurrences for you, you need to make some changes. You need to open your eyes and start paying attention to the needs of others. For example, keep your parents apprised of any changes to your practice schedule. Let’s say your sister has a music lesson every Tuesday afternoon. If your coach schedules a special practice on a Tuesday afternoon, arrange to get a ride with a teammate so that your mom can get your sister to her lesson on time.</p>

<h3>LOOK FOR WAYS TO HELP YOUR PARENTS WHEN POSSIBLE &gt;&gt;</h3>

<p>Your parents devote an enormous amount of their time taking you to and from games and practices, buying you equipment, watching you play, and cheering you on. When they get home, they have many responsibilities waiting for them, including cooking meals, cleaning the house, doing laundry, helping with homework, and more.</p>
<p>When you take on a few chores, such as keeping your room clean or doing the dishes after dinner, you’re lessening some of the burden on your parents’ shoulders and at the same time showing gratitude for all they do for you.</p>
<p><span class="keyword heading">PARENTS &gt;&gt;</span> As a parent of a Level-1 player, I expect that on Friday and Saturday nights, she will have her backpack set by her bed with her uniforms, socks, shin guards, cleats, and everything she needs for the next day’s games ready to go. It is her responsibility to have her bag ready when I say “Let’s go!” in the morning. When we get home from her games on Saturday, the first thing she does is go into the laundry room to wash her uniforms and then she puts them back in her backpack for Sunday’s games.</p>
<p id="p71">As a parent, you’ve got to teach your child it’s her responsibility to be game-ready. She needs to be focused enough on her game that she is already thinking about what uniforms and equipment she needs to be ready, and she needs to share with you any changes to the schedule for the next day. Children this age are old enough to stay on top of their readiness and to relay information to you. Parents just need to make sure they have laid the right foundation and stressed the importance of taking responsibility, and that they are trusting their children to rise to the task. <span class="attribution">—Walid</span></p>
<p class="athlete"><span class="keyword heading">CAMILLE LEVIN &gt;&gt;</span> My parents were my biggest sup-porters; they saw me at my happiest and at my saddest. Even though they didn’t understand all the rules and intricacies of soccer (at least, not at first), they knew me and they knew when I was giving 100% and when I wasn’t. If I had a really good game, they were the first to compliment me for it. If it was a hard day and I was really emotional or upset after a game, they were pretty quiet. They wouldn’t start attacking me or say I could have done better. They just let me know they were proud of me no matter what and gave me the space to feel however I needed to.</p>
<p class="athlete">A lot of times in youth games, you see the parents going crazy on the sidelines, yelling at their kids, and that really impacts the kids themselves because it makes them self-conscious and distracted about what their parents might say or do. Sometimes you even see parents yelling at other people’s children. I strongly believe that the only thing that should come from parents on the sidelines is encouragement; it’s not their place to be coaches. My parents would offer me critiques in the car after the game, if I needed it, but it was in a private space and <a id="p72"/>it was never an attack or a way of putting me down. It was just them expressing their honest opinion on what they saw. I disagreed with them sometimes, but I always knew they were looking out for my best interest and were never overly aggressive in any way on the field or off.</p>
</section>
</body></html>