<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"/>
<title>The Complete Athlete</title>
<link href="../Styles/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section>
<h2>ACADEMICS</h2>

<p>Many youth soccer players (and many parents as well) have the misconception that if an athlete is good enough, grades don’t matter. Nothing could be further from the truth. For one thing, college coaches know that athletes who perform well in school—as well as on the field of play—are generally mature individuals with good time-management skills. These are the student-athletes the coaches want in their programs.</p>
<p>As a youth soccer player travels the path toward becoming a <span class="keyword">COMPLETE ATHLETE</span>, she must develop a lifestyle that allows her to maintain good grades. Granted, not everyone is going to be an A+-student, but a few key strategies can go a long way toward helping improve grades.</p>

<h3 id="p73">STRATEGIES FOR MAINTAINING GOOD GRADES &gt;&gt;</h3>

<p><span class="runin-head">Hand in all assignments on time.</span> Most teachers make a deduction for homework turned in late.</p>
<p><span class="runin-head">Be organized.</span> Having all your materials organized can help you complete your assignments on time.</p>
<p><span class="runin-head">Pay close attention in class.</span> Focus on what the teacher is saying, take good notes and follow directions.</p>
<p><span class="runin-head">Study a little bit every day.</span> Just as practicing drills can help improve your soccer skills, regular studying time helps you retain information better.</p>
<p><span class="runin-head">Ask questions.</span> Your teachers want you to succeed; if you’re having trouble with the material, your teacher is the first person you should go to for help.</p>
<p><span class="runin-head">Don’t cram for tests.</span> Put in extra study time at least a few days before the exam. Read through textbook chapters, study your notes, and take any practice tests available to you.</p>
<p><span class="runin-head">Behave appropriately in class.</span> Good behavior starts with knowing the rules. In school, the rules usually include sitting still at your desk, listening to your teacher, and raising your hand if you want to speak. Other schools may have other rules, but generally speaking, knowing—and obeying—these rules automatically leads to good behavior.</p>
<p><span class="keyword heading">COACHES &gt;&gt;</span> One year, just a week before the league championship game, I had a parent ask me if we could speak after practice. I agreed, and at the end of the <a id="p74"/>day, we stepped aside and she explained to me that, as much as it hurt her, her daughter would not be playing that weekend in our big game. It turns out that her daughter had had a very rough semester and flunked her final exam, so her parents were taking away all of her privileges and everything she enjoyed—including soccer, which was her life—until she got her grades back up.</p>
<p>That parent may have been worried that I would protest but, in fact, she had my complete support. Clearly, those parents knew the magnitude of teaching a child at a young age how to balance academics and sports. After all, for anyone serious about having an athletic career, the ultimate goal is to have sports and academics go hand in hand, because that’s how you’ll get into and stay in college.</p>
<p>The next day, when I explained to the rest of the team why that young lady was not with us, it really shook some of her teammates that I supported the decision 100% and was on the same page as the parents. Two weeks later, after the girl buckled down and ended up passing her classes, I had a really great talk with her about how important it was for her to stay on top of her academics and keep her grades up. Her parents had taught her a painful but memorable lesson by taking the game away from her—and I don’t think she ever forgot it. <span class="attribution">—Ziad</span></p>
<p><span class="keyword heading">COACHES</span> <span class="keyword">&gt;&gt;</span> These days, by the time an athlete reaches middle school, the homework load has become much heavier. A player needs to learn how to balance her practice schedule with her academics. It is extremely important that coaches point out to their players that, without the grades, sports will not be an option in the future. In high school and college, students are not <a id="p75"/>eligible to play if they don’t maintain a certain grade-point average.</p>
<p>When my own daughter was that age, her practice days were Tuesday and Thursday, so her homework schedule was different on those days. She got home at 3:30, had a snack and then she did homework from 4 to 5:30, when it was time to head to practice. This routine was non-negotiable; she just knew that she didn’t have time to waste after school on Tuesdays and Thursdays. Some players on other teams lived up to 45 minutes away, and many of them worked on homework or studying while in the car. The most important thing is that coaches understand and respect the priority of academics, and stress to their players the need for a good schedule on practice days. Athletics should never be an excuse for why homework was not completed. <span class="attribution">—Walid</span></p>
</section>
</body></html>