<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"/>
<title>The Complete Athlete</title>
<link href="../Styles/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section>
<h2>SOCIAL LIFE</h2>

<p>A solid <span class="keyword">Social Life</span> is important for all young people, not just youth athletes. Friends provide companionship and recreation. Friends also give advice to one another and often help to ease anxiety during times of stress. Young people who don’t have friends tend to be more lonely and unhappy. They also have lower levels of academic achievement and lower self-esteem.</p>
<p>While many youth soccer players’ social lives revolve around their teammates, many have friends outside of sports. Either way, a soccer player’s lifestyle should include spending time with friends outside of soccer and learning to be considerate of those friends.</p>

<h3 id="p76">HOW TO MAKE FRIENDS OUTSIDE OF SOCCER &gt;&gt;</h3>

<p>There are many ways to make friends outside of soccer. You are surrounded by potential friends in school, in your neighborhood, and even at your church or temple. By opening your eyes and really observing other kids, you can find mutual likes (or even dislikes) to bond over.</p>
<p>For example, you may notice another kid wearing a jersey representing your favorite team. By saying to that person, “Hey, I like that team, too,” you make a connection to a potential friend. Asking questions to get to know the other person can help create a true friendship.</p>

<h3>HOW TO BE CONSIDERATE OF FRIENDS’ TIME AND OTHER OBLIGATIONS &gt;&gt;</h3>

<p>Whether you develop friendships with your teammates or your classmates, you need to remember that everyone has responsibilities. They have homework to do, sports or music to practice, siblings to babysit, and chores to complete.</p>
<p>Sometimes you’ll make plans with a friend, only to have him or her cancel at the last minute. It may be because they forgot about a family event, or their parents scheduled something and forgot to tell them about it. It may even be because they suddenly realized they needed more time to get a school assignment finished.</p>
<p>Whatever the reason, being considerate of your friends means not getting angry or throwing a fit when plans change or when they just can’t seem to find the time to be with you. Be understanding and remember that next time it might be you having to cancel at the last minute.</p>
<p id="p77"><span class="keyword heading">PARENTS &gt;&gt;</span> Watching my daughter grow up, one of the things I really have come to admire about her is how she has balanced her life and the kinds of friends she has: friends from soccer, from church, and from school. She has never said, “That’s it. These are my soccer friends and that’s who I am going to hang around with 24/7.” Going to school, she made friends there and spends time with them. Going to church, she made friends there and spends time with them. Going to soccer, she made great friends there, and she makes time for them, too. The bottom line of it all is that balancing life and creating friends in every circle teaches young people how to manage different circles. Their friends from each area of their lives are going to have different approaches, different problems, different opinions and ideas, and different stuff to do for fun. <span class="attribution">—Walid</span></p>
</section>
</body></html>