<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"/>
<title>The Complete Athlete</title>
<link href="../Styles/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section>
<h2>ROLE MODEL</h2>

<p>A <span class="keyword">Role Model</span> is someone who possesses qualities that others admire. They are the people others look up to and want to be like. Being a good role model is another attribute that college and professional coaches like to see in the athletes they recruit.</p>
<p>Role models demonstrate respect for others and for themselves. To be a good role model, start by demonstrating respect for others by:</p>

<ul>
	<li>Listening carefully, not interrupting and fidgeting when someone else is speaking</li>
	<li>Addressing people by their names</li>
	<li>Valuing other people’s opinions</li>
	<li id="p78">Letting teammates know they are appreciated</li>
	<li>Not insulting people, making fun of them, or talking about them behind their backs</li>
</ul>

<p><span class="keyword heading">PARENTS AND COACHES &gt;&gt;</span> One of the most important things we need to do as coaches and as parents is to paint the picture for these players of how to become great role models. I love inviting players and parents to watch older teams play and look for certain behaviors in those players and teams. How do the players talk to one another? How do they interact on the field? What do their attitudes seem like? How closely is everyone paying attention to the coach at half-time? Seeing those traits demonstrated really allows younger players to get a clear sense of how to behave the same way, and it also reinforces for the parents the right way that their child should be conducting herself. <span class="attribution">—Ziad</span></p>
</section>
</body></html>