<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"/>
<title>The Complete Athlete</title>
<link href="../Styles/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section>
<h2 id="p85">RESPECT</h2>

<p><span class="keyword heading">RESPECT</span> means treating others in ways that show they have worth and value, and being considerate of other people’s feelings. At Level 1, all youth soccer players should treat their coaches with respect. That does not change at Level 2. In fact, a <span class="keyword">COMPLETE ATHLETE</span> always shows respect for her coaches at every level of play.</p>
<p>At Level 2, it’s important for youth soccer players to learn to respect their teammates as well. The key is to treat them the way you would like them to treat you.</p>

<h3>HOW TO DEMONSTRATE RESPECT FOR YOUR TEAMMATES AND OPPONENTS &gt;&gt;</h3>

<ul>
	<li>Learn your teammates’ names and address them by their names. </li>
	<li>Listen carefully when a teammate is talking to you.</li>
	<li>Do not insult teammates or opponents or talk about them behind their backs.</li>
	<li>Forgive others when they make a mistake and do not make fun of them.</li>
	<li>Let your teammates know you appreciate them both on and off the field.</li>
</ul>

<p><span class="keyword heading">ATHLETES &gt;&gt;</span> In the ages between 11 and 14, it is so im-portant to learn how to respect your teammates and to set the tone so that everyone on the team feels that they will be treated the same regardless of their level of play.</p>
<p>There was a game when a forward missed a shot and another player said to her, “I can’t believe you missed that! How could you not have scored?” At half-time, I sat them both down and said, “I’m going to ask you a <a id="p86"/>question: Do you think she wanted to miss that shot?” The first girl, of course, said no. So I continued, “Then why would you tell her that you can’t believe she missed the shot?” The girl immediately apologized and said she hadn’t meant it that way. That was great, but I continued: “What would have happened if you had told her she was a great player—do you think she would have been mentally in a better position to score?” She said yes, so I then asked her, “Would you have liked it if someone had told you they couldn’t believe you missed a tackle? Just think about what happened, what you said, and the impact on your teammate and on the game.”</p>
<p>Teach players about the impact of what they say and how they should interact with one another. They all fall on the same page, and they need to understand how important it is to have respect for their teammates. Being positive and just saying something as simple as, “Good job!” can affect the game and do so much more to improve your teammates’ performance than any kind of negativity. <span class="attribution">—Ziad</span></p>
</section>
</body></html>