<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"/>
<title>The Complete Athlete</title>
<link href="../Styles/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section>
<h2 id="p87">SPORTSMANSHIP</h2>

<p><span class="keyword heading">GOOD SPORTSMANSHIP</span> starts with respect for one’s teammates, opponents, coaches, and officials. At Level 1, all youth soccer players should know the basic rules of soccer and always play by them. That does not change at Level 2. In fact, a <span class="keyword">COMPLETE ATHLETE</span> always plays by the rules at every level of play.</p>
<p>At Level 2, youth soccer players begin to differentiate themselves by their skill levels. They begin to develop high expectations for themselves as well as for their teammates. Often, it’s the players that put in the most effort in terms of <span class="keyword">PREPARATION</span> that play the best. However, some girls who practice regularly and try hard may not develop beyond a certain skill level. At Level 2, youth soccer players learn to accept players who have different levels of ability.</p>

<h3>HOW TO TREAT TEAMMATES WHO ARE LESS SKILLED THAN YOU &gt;&gt;</h3>

<ul>
	<li>Never make fun of or insult a teammate.</li>
	<li>Do not talk about them behind their backs.</li>
	<li>Acknowledge any good plays they make.</li>
	<li>Reassure them if they make a poor play.</li>
	<li>Encourage them to improve by practicing skills with them outside of regular team practices.</li>
</ul>

<p><span class="keyword heading">ATHLETES &gt;&gt;</span> Something I like to do with my 12- and 13-year-old players is to challenge them: “Define for me what makes a player great.” They always give me the same answers: someone who can score, who is talented, who is the best at what they do.</p>
<p id="p88">Nope. A great player is one who makes everyone else play and perform better than they would otherwise. That’s the definition of a great player.</p>
<p>It is essencial at these ages to teach that, because this is the age where gaps start to open on the team between one or two extremely great players and the rest. It is so important for the stars to realize that their gift is one that needs to be shared, and it is important for the rest of the team to realize that the leaders should be lifting up everyone else with them.</p>
<p>A few years ago, I was at a soccer camp where the kids came in for a week and played soccer, but they did a number of other activities as well. We would have practice for an hour in the morning and then pickup games at night, and on Wednesday night there was a girl on my team who happened to play on a national team. At that pickup game, her team won 10-0, and she scored all the goals—just one after another. I didn’t comment on it; I just told her I needed to talk to her after the game. I explained that God gave her a talent to share with other people instead of just keeping it for her own fame and that the next day, her goal needed to be to share the ball and help the other kids enjoy the game by passing to them and involving them, too.</p>
<p>The following evening, she was on my team again, and I didn’t say a word about the day before; I just sent the girls out to start the game. Through that whole game, she passed the ball to everyone else and let everyone else do the scoring. She was dribbling and then setting up the other kids for success and passing the ball to them. Afterward, she stayed and helped me clean up the field. I asked her if she felt better after that game than the <a id="p89"/>one the day before. She nodded and said, “Thank you, Coach. I get it.”</p>
<p>I told her I was proud of her and added, “Just don’t forget this. That smile that you put on the faces of these kids will stay with them for a long, long time. They will always remember you for what you did for them in that game.” <span class="attribution">—Ziad</span></p>

<p><span class="keyword heading">COACHES &gt;&gt;</span> You have to teach your team how to be good sports. One of the first things I teach my teams is that if anyone gets injured—our side or an opponent—to kick the ball out so the game is stopped and the player can be attended to.</p>
<p>One of the best things I have ever seen one of our teams do was at the age-13 State Cup, an opponent took a bad fall and ended up tearing her ACL. The first thing my players did when they saw she was in pain was kick the ball out, and then after after she got help, our girls sat down, held hands, and prayed for her. Even the opposing team’s parents and coaches commented on that. It was a tremendous display of sportsmanship and the sort of thing that builds your reputation both on and off the field. It was one of my proudest moments as a coach. <span class="attribution">—Ziad</span></p>
</section>
</body></html>