<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"/>
<title>The Complete Athlete</title>
<link href="../Styles/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section>
<h2 id="p90">TEAMWORK</h2>

<p><span class="keyword heading">TEAMWORK</span> means working together as a group in order to achieve a goal. In sports, players contribute their individual skills and efforts in cooperation with their teammates to win games. Learning to play as part of a team, and not just as an individual athlete, is important at every level of play.</p>
<p>At Level 2, soccer coaches may add team-building exercises to practice sessions. Youth soccer players need to take these exercises seriously. Learning how to trust each other helps teammates work together more effectively and, ultimately, to win more games.</p>
<p><span class="keyword heading">COACHES &gt;&gt;</span> Something I love doing at this age is to make sure that everyone gets a chance to develop their skills. Too often, coaches rely on the one or two star players and the team follows suit, so that everyone is depending on those players and only those players really grow.</p>
<p>What I like to do is to create a couple of challenges that don’t knock down my stars but that help them to understand the importance of being team players. At practice, I will tell a star, “You’re very fast at dribbling, but I’m going to give you a 20-yard head start in a 50-yard sprint, and I guarantee I will beat you.”</p>
<p>All the girls start laughing as we line up, but I wait until the star gets to the 40-yard line, and then I just kick the ball. It goes sailing across the line ahead of her, and everyone looks at me like I’m crazy. “Did you see that?” I say. “Nobody is faster than the ball.”</p>
<p id="p91">I have the star player come back, and then I tell her, “This time, I want you to dribble with the ball for 50 yards. I’m going to give you a 10-yard head start, and this time I’m going to run and beat you.” So we start over, put the balls on the ground at our feet, and she dribbles out to the 10- or 15-yard line, and then I just sprint without the ball and, of course, I get there first. “Do you get what I’m trying to tell you?” I ask. “It’s much faster to run without the ball than with the ball. My point is that if you learn how to share the ball and pick up moments when to dribble or not, that’s when you become a more effective player. You’ve got to learn how to use your teammates. It’s much easier to find one of your teammates while you’re dribbling, pass the ball to them, sprint without the ball, get the ball back, and then dribble than it is to dribble the whole 40 yards by yourself.”</p>
<p>I’ve found that this is a very valuable exercise in helping to make everyone realize the importance of passing and working together, rather than just always deferring to the best player. It does this in a way that does not make the star player feel belittled or like she is being punished for being good. <span class="attribution">—Walid</span></p>
</section>
</body></html>