<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"/>
<title>The Complete Athlete</title>
<link href="../Styles/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section>
<h2 id="p92">PROFESSIONALISM</h2>

<p>Certainly a youth athlete is not a professional in the sense of being paid to play. However, developing the attitude and behaviors of a <span class="keyword">Professional</span> can help her more easily move up through the levels.</p>
<p>At Level 1, a youth soccer player learns to arrive on time with all her equipment at hand. However, it’s likely that her parents have helped her to do so by regularly washing her uniform and helping her keep track of her equipment.</p>
<p>At Level 2, a youth soccer player should begin to take responsibility for keeping her equipment clean and well maintained and for washing and folding her uniform properly. At this age, she should also take responsibility for her personal hygiene by showering regularly and always wearing deodorant so she can arrive at practices and games well groomed and ready to go to work.</p>
<p><span class="keyword heading">COACHES &gt;&gt;</span> At this level, coaches need to stress to the players that it is each girl’s responsibility to have her gear with her at all times—it’s no one else’s responsibility but her own.</p>
<p>At one of my games, we had to change to our alternate jerseys because our primary jerseys were very similar in color to those of the opposing team. One girl opened her bag and didn’t have her extra jersey with her, and her first response was, “My mom didn’t put it in my bag.”</p>
<p>We had an extra jersey, but I specifically sat her out the whole first half because I had told the team, “It is your responsibility at this age to check your bag and make <a id="p93"/>sure you have your primary jersey, your alternate jersey, your two socks, and all your gear in your bags. It is not your mom’s or dad’s responsibility anymore.” I explain it to them like this: “Can you show up to class and say, ‘I’m sorry, teacher. I don’t have my math book today because my mom didn’t put it in my backpack’? Of course not.” At this age, players should be checking on their own gear, their own water or Gatorade, their own cleats—they should not be waiting on their parents to get it for them or have it ready. <span class="attribution">—Ziad</span></p>

<p class="athlete"><span class="keyword heading">KASSI MCCLUSKIE &gt;&gt;</span> It is important to find a coach for whom you really enjoy playing and with whom you mesh well … but there is also a great benefit in learning how to play for all different kinds of coaches. I’ve had coaches who were unbelievably nice and easy-going, and I’ve had coaches who were unbelievably intense and cutthroat when it came to competition—and I am glad that I experienced both kinds. The different approaches not only brought out different strengths and helped me develop in different areas, but all those different coaching styles I experienced really helped me to shape my own leadership philosophy.</p>
<p class="athlete">Everyone responds differently to different kinds of motivation and discipline. You should never stand for a coach who is abusive, but don’t automatically write off one who is different than a previous coach or your preferred style. Give him or her a chance and be willing to be coachable. You might be surprised by the new ways you grow!</p>
</section>
</body></html>