<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"/>
<title>The Complete Athlete</title>
<link href="../Styles/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section>
<h2 id="p97">PRACTICE</h2>

<p>At Level 1, a youth soccer player practices the basic techniques of soccer with an emphasis on having fun and becoming a better, more confident player. At Level 2, a youth soccer player continues to work on mastering the basic techniques through individual practice sessions. She also begins to work on becoming a well-rounded player by understanding—and practicing—all positions involved in the game of soccer. Learning all the different positions also helps the youth soccer player begin to narrow down her choices for which positions to specialize in at higher levels of play.</p>
<p>As in Level 1, the more focused a youth athlete remains during her individual practice sessions, the more effective the practice time will be. <span class="keyword">The idea is to work smarter</span>—<span class="keyword">not harder or longer.</span> Creating a practice schedule with specific drills can help a youth soccer player focus better during the practice session.</p>

<h3>LEVEL 2 SAMPLE PRACTICE SESSION &gt;&gt;</h3>


<ul>
	<li>Warm up and stretch</li>
	<li>Drill 1 — based on position skills</li>
	<li>Drill 2 — based on position skills</li>
	<li>Drill 3 — based on position skills</li>
</ul>

<p><span class="runin-head">Private coaching</span> Starting at Level 2, a youth soccer player who is serious about moving into higher levels of play and possibly earning a scholarship for college should consider working with a private coach. Working with a private coach for the basic techniques can give a youth soccer player a huge advantage over other soccer players her age.</p>
<p id="p98">Most private coaches provide one-on-one sessions that are focused on the individual player and the skills she needs to improve most. They generally work on ball mastery, balance, agility, speed, tactical understanding, and decision-making to help a soccer player reach her maximum&#160;potential.</p>
<p><span class="keyword heading">ATHLETES &gt;&gt;</span> At this level, we see players starting to develop a real love of the game and a commitment to spending more time practicing. Often times they will show up early to practice to try to get more time in shoot-ing before everyone else arrives. Often they will call up some friends and get together to practice crosses and passing, or play “soccer tennis” in groups of two or four.</p>
<p>Athletes will often want to start with some private coaching, almost like a tutor for schoolwork, in order to really hone their skills. This is great, but also remember that there is no better coach than the wall—it is one of the best ways for athletes to squeeze in a little practice time almost any time. Ten minutes spent practicing kicking against the wall can be incredibly helpful in working on reflexes, footwork, and speed.</p>
<p>Practice has to be taken more seriously at this stage; come prepared to practice, be focused in practice, and really learn from other players who are better. One of the best things that you can do as an athlete is to pair up with a more advanced player so that every drill is a challenge and requires “playing up” to a higher level.</p>
</section>
</body></html>