<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"/>
<title>The Complete Athlete</title>
<link href="../Styles/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section>
<h2 id="p99">NUTRITION</h2>

<p><span class="keyword heading">NUTRITION</span> plays a key role in athletic performance. Youth athletes are building muscle, burning calories, and growing. They need to eat and drink regularly to make up for the loss of calories they are burning and the fluids they are using during practice and actual games.</p>
<p>An active youth soccer player needs to consume healthy food and beverages in order to:</p>

<ul>
	<li>Replenish her energy supply</li>
	<li>Maintain hydration</li>
	<li>Obtain the vitamins and minerals needed to support metabolism, tissue growth, and repair </li>
	<li>Prevent injuries and/or illnesses</li>
	<li>Perform at her best both on and off the field</li>
</ul>


<h3>GENERAL SPORTS NUTRITION GUIDELINES &gt;&gt;</h3>

<ul>
	<li>All athletes should consume 5 or more balanced meals spread throughout the day, every 3–4 hours. </li>
	<li>Meals should be eaten 2–3 hours before practice or games, and snacks eaten 1–1 ½ hours before practice or games.</li>
	<li>Eat when you’re hungry to prevent lean-muscle breakdown; stop when you’re full to prevent being sluggish. </li>
	<li>Eat breakfast within 30 minutes of waking up to prevent lean-muscle breakdown, increase energy and concentration, and maintain good blood-sugar control. Choose whole grains, fresh fruit, and lean protein for breakfast.</li>
	<li id="p100">Eat well-balanced meals and snacks, consisting of carbohydrates, lean proteins, and heart-healthy fats.</li>
	<li>Drink a protein shake, or eat a snack or meal that has equal amounts of protein and carbohydrates, within 30 minutes after a workout.</li>
	<li>Choose fresh, whole foods when possible (instead of processed foods that are packaged or refined) to increase nutritional value. Avoid foods that are high in sugar and/or trans fat. </li>
</ul>

<h3>LEVEL-2 ATHLETE NUTRITION GUIDELINES &gt;&gt;</h3>

<p>Each individual has different macronutrient needs, based on height, weight, age, activity level, and genetic background. The following macronutrient guidelines are based on age and estimated activity level for a Level-2 athlete:</p>

<ul>
	<li>55% carbohydrate</li>
	<li>20% protein</li>
	<li>25% fat</li>
	<li>No more than 7% saturated fat</li>
	<li>No trans fat</li>
	<li>31 grams of fiber per day</li>
	<li>No more than 150 calories per day from sugar (37.5 grams or 9 teaspoons) </li>
</ul>

<p>Just as in Level 1, a Level-2 youth soccer player should choose from the following to fulfill the macronutrient needs listed above:</p>
<p><span class="runin-head">Carbohydrates</span> High fiber foods, such as whole-grain bread, brown rice, whole grain pasta (or gluten-free versions), beans, starchy vegetables (e.g., corn, peas, potatoes), quinoa, and cereal</p>
<p id="p101"><span class="runin-head">Proteins</span> Chicken, turkey, or fish, especially wild salmon, tuna, trout, mackerel, and sardines, which are high in heart-healthy omega-3 fatty acids</p>
<p><span class="runin-head">Fats</span> Low-fat cheese, nuts/nut butters (natural peanut butter or almond butter), avocado, seeds, and heart-healthy oils like extra-virgin olive oil, canola oil, grapeseed oil, and flaxseed oil</p>
<p><span class="runin-head">Vegetables</span> Preferably leafy green vegetables</p>
<p><span class="keyword heading">ATHLETES &gt;&gt;</span> At this level, games are longer than at younger ages, and the field is bigger, too. That means your body is going to require a lot more fuel to burn. Nutrition is more important than ever now, so you need to focus on what you eat and how much you drink in the days leading up to game, just before the game, during the game, and after the game. If you want to keep up at this higher level, you have to give your body what it needs.</p>
</section>
</body></html>