<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"/>
<title>The Complete Athlete</title>
<link href="../Styles/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section>
<h2>CORE STRENGTH</h2>

<p>Core strength at Level 2 continues to be important as your body grows and changes. At this level, you will be more prone to back or oblique injuries that can keep athletes off the pitch. Testing will point out any neglect to your core strength and let you know in what areas you need to improve to protect your health. <strong>As in Level 1, we have kept the plank and med-ball throw the same, but we added the hip-lift march to test lower back, glute, and hamstring strength.</strong></p>

<h3>TO PERFORM A PLANK &gt;&gt;</h3>

<ul>
	<li>Get down on the floor with your hands slightly wider than shoulder-width apart and your arms straight and supporting your weight.</li>
	<li>Make sure your body stays straight—your hips shouldn’t be sticking way up in the air or sagging.</li>
	<li>Hold this position for as long as you can.</li>
</ul>
<p id="p114"><span class="keyword">Overhead medicine-ball throws</span> use the same pattern as a soccer throw-in but are a great way to measure core explosive strength in a soccer player at any age. It takes a lot of strength and coordination to throw a medicine ball.</p>

<h3>TO PERFORM AN OVERHEAD MEDICINE- BALL THROW &gt;&gt;</h3>

<ul>
	<li>Stand with both feet on a line, facing forward. </li>
	<li>Hold a medicine ball with both hands and raise it above and behind your head.</li>
	<li>Draw the ball back and throw it as far as possible in front of you at a 45-degree angle.</li>
	<li>It is ok to follow through past the line after throwing.</li>
</ul>

<p>The <span class="keyword">hip-lift march</span> helps to measure—and improve—the strength and endurance of the back muscles.</p>

<h3>TO PERFORM A HIP-LIFT MARCH &gt;&gt;</h3>

<ul>
	<li>Lie flat on your back with your knees bent 90 degrees and your feet flat on the ground.</li>
	<li>Lift your hips as high as possible, with only your shoulders and feet touching the ground.</li>
	<li>While keeping your hips at the same height, lift each knee in a controlled marching motion for as long as possible.</li>
</ul>
</section>
</body></html>