<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"/>
<title>The Complete Athlete</title>
<link href="../Styles/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section>
<p id="p109">In Level 1, we discussed a number of exercises to im-prove a youth soccer player’s overall fitness. At Level 2, a youth soccer player should be able to perform all Level-1 tests at a higher level in terms of time and dis-tance. These exercises are revisited below, and several more exercises are introduced.</p>


<h2>LOWER-BODY STRENGTH</h2>

<p><span class="keyword">Lower-body strength</span> is becoming more important than it might have been in Level 1. By putting more work into your lower-body strength you can begin to see significant speed gains and much quicker cutting and footwork. If lower-body strength is neglected, a soccer athlete can become predictably right- or left-leg dominant, which can be exposed by opponents.</p>
<p>Exercises like single-leg wall squats and broad jumps can help a youth soccer player develop the leg strength, posture, and balance that lead to better soccer technique. Single-leg wall squats and single-leg wall sits can also help determine if one leg is stronger than the other, and can be used to develop a better balance of strength in both legs.</p>

<h3 id="p110">TO PERFORM SINGLE-LEG SQUATS &gt;&gt;</h3>


<ul>
	<li>Stand on one leg while your other leg is lifted off the ground in front of your body. Your hip should be bent to approximately 45 degrees and your knee bent to approximately 90 degrees. </li>
	<li>Hold your arms out straight in front of you with your hands clasped together. From this position, squat down until your knee is bent to approximately 60 degrees.</li>
	<li>Return to the start position and repeat.</li>
</ul>


<h3>TO PERFORM A SINGLE-LEG WALL SIT &gt;&gt;</h3>

<ul>
	<li>Stand with your back against a smooth vertical wall </li>
	<li>and your feet approximately shoulder-width apart. </li>
	<li>Slowly slide your back down the wall until both knees </li>
	<li>and hips are at a 90-degree angle. </li>
	<li>Lift one foot off the ground and hold it as long as possible. After a period of rest, lift the other foot and hold it. </li>
</ul>

<p><span class="keyword heading">NOTE &gt;&gt;</span> If you can hold one foot up considerably longer than the other, you may need to work on developing a better balance of strength in both legs.</p>


<h3>TO PERFORM A BROAD JUMP &gt;&gt;</h3>

<ul>
	<li>Stand behind a line marked on the ground, with your feet slightly apart.</li>
	<li>Use a two-foot takeoff and landing, swinging your arms and bending your knees to provide forward drive. </li>
	<li>Jump as far as possible, landing on both feet without falling backwards.</li>
</ul>

<p><span class="keyword heading">NOTE &gt;&gt;</span> The broad jump is a great linear measurement of power in the legs.</p>
</section>
</body></html>