<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"/>
<title>The Complete Athlete</title>
<link href="../Styles/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section>
<h2 id="p111">UPPER-BODY STRENGTH</h2>

<p>In Level 1, <span class="keyword">upper-body strength</span> was identified as an important but overlooked aspect of fitness in soccer. But upper-body strength can be a big difference in winning balls in traffic and balance after contact. Also, upper-body strength can be an advantage for throw-ins or for goalies to get the ball accurately to defensive players.</p>
<p>As discussed in Level 1, pull exercises, like the bent-arm hold, are used to increase upper-back strength and mobility, while push exercises, like push-ups, increase chest and shoulder strength and mobility.</p>

<h3>TO PERFORM A BENT-ARM HOLD PULL-UP &gt;&gt;</h3>

<ul>
	<li>Grasp an overhead bar using an underhand grip (palms facing toward body).</li>
	<li>Position your body with your arms flexed and your chin clearing the bar. Your chest should be held close to the bar, with your legs hanging straight. </li>
	<li>Hold this position for as long as possible. </li>
</ul>

<h3>TO PERFORM PUSH-UPS &gt;&gt;</h3>

<ul>
	<li>Lie face down on the floor (or mat) with your hands under your shoulders or slightly wider than your chest, fingers straight, legs straight and parallel. </li>
	<li>Straighten your arms, pushing your upper body up and keeping your back and knees straight.</li>
	<li>Bend your arms to lower your upper body until your elbows are at a 90-degree angle and your upper arms are parallel to the floor. </li>
	<li>Perform as many repetitions as possible without resting.</li>
</ul>
</section>
</body></html>