<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"/>
<title>The Complete Athlete</title>
<link href="../Styles/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section>
<h2 id="p112">FLEXIBILITY/MOBILITY</h2>

<p>A good degree of flexibility and mobility leads to better soccer technique and helps to prevent injuries. As discussed in Level 1, the sit-and-reach test is used to assess—and improve—a youth athlete’s level of lower-body flexibility and mobility.</p>

<h3>TO PERFORM THE SIT-AND-REACH TEST &gt;&gt;</h3>

<p><span class="keyword heading">NOTE &gt;&gt;</span> You’ll need a box that is 12 inches high, such as a milk crate. Tape a yardstick or ruler to the top so that the first nine inches hang over the edge and the nine-inch mark is exactly on the edge against which you will place your feet.</p>

<ul>
	<li>Place the box against a wall.</li>
	<li>Sit on the floor in front of the box with your legs straight in front of you and the soles of your feet flat against the front side of the box. The overhanging part of the ruler should be pointed at your chest or midsection. </li>
	<li>Keeping your legs straight and flat on the floor, stretch forward and reach along the ruler with one hand on top of the other, palms down.</li>
	<li>Stretch forward three times without bouncing; then reach as far as possible, holding the farthest point for at least three seconds.</li>
	<li>The purpose of the 90/90 test is to determine if the athlete has tight hamstrings and is at risk of possible leg injury. A failure in this test means you need to stretch more to gain more flexibility.</li>
</ul>

<h3 id="p113">TO PERFORM A 90/90 TEST &gt;&gt;</h3>

<ul>
	<li>Lie on your back, legs straight and flat on the ground.</li>
	<li>Bend the test knee to 90 degrees and then raise it so your thigh is vertical and your knee still bent. (The non-test leg should still be straight and resting on the floor.)</li>
	<li>Bend at the knee to straighten your test leg. If you can extend your leg to 0 degrees (the entire leg is straight at a 90-degree angle from your body), you have passed. If you cannot straighten your leg, record what angle you have left to achieve neutral position (straight knee). Anything greater than 10 degrees is failing. (Make sure the non-test leg never bends or comes off the ground while measuring.)</li>
</ul>
</section>
</body></html>