<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"/>
<title>The Complete Athlete</title>
<link href="../Styles/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section>
<h2>ROLE MODEL</h2>

<p>At Level 1, a <span class="keyword">Role Model</span> was defined as someone who possesses qualities that others admire, such as de-monstrating respect for themselves and others. At Level 2, being a good role model revolves around modeling good behavior in school as well as on and off the field of play.</p>
<p>Good behavior starts with knowing the rules. In school, the rules usually include sitting still at your desk, listening to your teacher, and raising your hand if you want to speak. Other schools may have other rules, but generally speaking, knowing—and obeying—these rules automatically leads to good behavior.</p>
<p>On the field of play, good behavior starts with listening to your coaches, doing what they tell you to do, and not whining when things don’t go your way. The best way to model good behavior on the field is to treat others the same way you would want them to treat you.</p>
<p><span class="keyword heading">PARENTS &gt;&gt;</span> I will always remember one girl who was a good soccer player and was also involved outside of <a id="p130"/>soccer with a lot of volunteering with her family. Every weekend we did not have a game, or whenever she had some free time, she would participate in community or charity work. It was really wonderful to see, but what was even better was that she would come to practice and share stories with the other kids on our team about how good she felt about herself after helping out various causes, about interesting things that happened in the nursing homes and how they put a smile on her face—just little things that had made her day and she was excited to share. By the end of the year, three or four of her teammates had been inspired to start doing some volunteer work, too. It was really wonderful to see how one child could be a role model for the others. I think it is really important for athletes and parents alike to be open to adding some of these kinds of opportunities to the schedule. <span class="attribution">—Ziad</span></p>
</section>
</body></html>