<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"/>
<title>The Complete Athlete</title>
<link href="../Styles/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section>
<h2 id="p125">SOCIAL LIFE</h2>

<p>While many youth soccer players’ social lives revolve around their teammates, many have friends outside of sports. Either way, a youth soccer player should develop a lifestyle that includes spending time with friends outside of the field of play AND offline.</p>
<p>As was discussed in Level 1, a solid <span class="keyword">Social Life</span> is important for all young people, not just youth athletes. The friends a young person makes can provide impor-tant support and encouragement at school and in church groups or service organizations, as well as on sports teams.</p>
<p>However, as girls move into middle school, cliques often emerge and can make navigating the social landscape much more difficult. It is normal for children to want to spend more time with their closest friends, but exclusionary groups can be detrimental for team growth. Parents and coaches need to keep an eye out for cliques and make sure that there is not bullying, gossip, or teasing going on. Cliques aren’t confined to the field, though. Online bullying is very real; parents should carefully monitor their children’s time spent on the computer and on their phones.</p>
<p>Spending time socializing online has become the norm for many young people. However, it’s important for young people to remember that their online life isn’t a substitute for spending time with friends face to face. In-person socializing provides more of the benefits of friendship and also helps youth athletes develop better interpersonal skills, which are essential for success in all areas of life.</p>

<h3 id="p126">HOW TO FIND A HEALTHY BALANCE BETWEEN ONLINE AND IN-PERSON SOCIAL INTERACTIONS &gt;&gt;</h3>

<p>If you think you type more than you speak to your friends, you may need to find a healthier balance between online and in-person interactions. One way is to measure the amount of time you spend online and compare it to the amount of time you spend with your friends in person. Challenge yourself to make your in-person time greater than your online time.</p>
<p><span class="keyword heading">PARENTS &gt;&gt;</span> We stress with our players that they must turn their phones off at the start of practice and not turn them back on until practice is over. We do this to help them:</p>

<ul>
	<li>Stay focused. If we allow them to keep their phones on, when we take a water break, they check their phones first before even rehydrating. This is, obviously, a huge distraction.</li>
	<li>Learn that they can live for an hour and a half without their phones. When practice is over and everyone jumps on their phones, we tease them, “What could possibly have happened in the last 90 minutes?” It’s a lot like being at school; students have to have their phones put away during class. We even suggest that parents collect the phone and turn them off during dinner. This is a great way to show players how to balance appropriate times to use their phones with times when they don’t need to be tethered to them.</li>
</ul>

<p class="athlete"><span class="keyword heading">KASSI MCCLUSKIE &gt;&gt;</span> Unfortunately, a very real issue on many girls’ teams at this level is cliques. At the younger levels, everyone seems to get along and be friends, but things seem to change right around the time the players <a id="p127"/>reach middle school and continues on into high school. It is natural for girls to have closer friendships with some members of their team than with others, but when those friendships start to turn into “alliances” or groups with “cool” and “uncool” labels, coaches and parents need to step in and nip it in the bud.</p>
<p class="athlete">My parents always made it a point, long before middle school, that I should befriend everyone, no matter what their social status. Everyone is different and that is what makes the world interesting; love people because of their differences! They explained that it was okay for me to have a core group of friends who I was closest to, but that I needed to pay attention to whether my group was welcoming or not welcoming. If we were closed off and kept people out, I should re-evaluate my friends. I firmly believe that my parents’ insistence on this point was what helped me learn how to become a leader on my youth teams. My teammates knew that I was not going to be a part of excluding other girls or trying to turn one against another, so they felt they could trust me. I will always be grateful to my mom and dad for the deliberate effort they invested in teaching me such a valuable lesson. Now, as a coach, I encourage parents to talk to their daughters on the way home and ask specific questions, such as:</p>

<ul class="athlete">
	<li>Whom did you pass to today?</li>
	<li>Whom have you been passing to the last</li>
	<li>couple of weeks?</li>
	<li>Have you passed to ________ lately?</li>
	<li>Have you and your friends invited someone&#9;&#9;new to be part of your warm-up group?</li>
</ul>
<p id="p128" class="athlete">Coaches also need to take action when they detect cliques starting to form among their players. I have learned not to let players pick their own teams or partners in practice, and I try always to keep mixing up the groups. If we are going on a trip, I don’t have best friends room together or allow the girls to pick who rides in which van. I am always scrambling the combinations to keep anyone from forming an “us and them” mentality within our own team. That requires you to really get to know your players in order to be able to detect patterns and warning signs, but that is a great thing. Players want to know about your life, and they want you to know their favorite color and the number of brothers and sisters or pets they have. When you have a personal connection with them, there is a new level of respect, and they generally will play better all around just knowing that they are under the leadership of someone who knows them and is interested in their lives.</p>

<p class="athlete"><span class="keyword heading">CAMILLE LEVIN &gt;&gt;</span> When I was 13, I was part of my first national team camp—100 of us were brought in from around the country, and we were introduced to the US soccer system and watched clips of Mia Hamm and other women players who were active at the time, and somehow that experience made it all click for me. My time at that camp made me decide that this was what I wanted to do and every sacrifice would be worth it. After that, I never once felt regret or feelings that I wished I was doing something else when I had to limit my time hanging out with friends or go home early from different activities in order to be ready for practice or a game.</p>
<p class="athlete">You often hear criticisms of parents who push their children too hard to excel in sports and take it seriously, but in my case, it was actually a bit of the opposite. My <a id="p129"/>parents were incredibly supportive, but they would also sometimes tell me to relax a little or slow down a bit, because they didn’t want to see me burn out. I knew what I wanted, and I had the discipline to say, “Let’s go home; I need to go to bed,” or “I want to stay late and practice a bit longer.” I was lucky that my parents never pushed me—all my ambition and drive came from myself, and my parents supported me to make the best choices along that path.</p>
</section>
</body></html>