<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"/>
<title>The Complete Athlete</title>
<link href="../Styles/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section>
<h2>LIVING YOUR SPORT</h2>

<p>Youth athletes who are serious about their chosen sport often cultivate a <span class="keyword">Lifestyle</span> in which they “live” the sport. At Level 1, youth soccer players demonstrate this attribute by playing simply for the love of the game. At Level 2, youth soccer players who live for the sport spend more time practicing drills and mastering skills. These are the girls who are often seen dribbling a ball wherever and whenever they can.</p>
<p>They also begin to spend time watching professional women’s soccer matches live or on television to learn more about the game and to see how the pros do it. Youth soccer players who live for the sport also start to spend more time learning and understanding ALL the rules of the game.</p>

<h3 id="p131">HOW TO STUDY THE RULES OF SOCCER &gt;&gt;</h3>

<p>The rules of soccer are based on the 17 Laws of the Game developed by Fédération Internationale de Football Association (FIFA) and maintained by the International Football Association Board (IFAB). The Laws are amen-ded from time to time but remain largely the same from one year to the next.</p>
<p>To read the latest version of the Laws of the Game, go to FIFA’s website at www.FIFA.com.</p>
</section>
</body></html>