<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"/>
<title>The Complete Athlete</title>
<link href="../Styles/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section>
<h2 id="p123">FAMILY</h2>

<p>As was discussed in Level 1, parents take on a fair amount of responsibility when their daughters begin to play soccer. Parents are responsible for getting them to practices and games, both on their own and by forming carpools with other families. They help their daughters obtain and pay for equipment, uniforms, and more. And they often take time out of their busy schedules to attend games and cheer their daughters on.</p>
<p>Youth soccer players who develop strong organizational skills tend to have stronger, more positive family relationships. For example, youth soccer players who keep track of practice and game schedules will know when their uniforms need to be clean and won’t be asking mom or dad to wash their uniforms at the last minute. Youth soccer players who keep their equipment organized and in a safe place will always know right where to find everything they need for a practice or game. Also, being aware of any regularly scheduled activities of other family members helps the youth soccer player know when her parents are available for carpooling to special practices or other events.</p>
</section>
</body></html>