<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"/>
<title>The Complete Athlete</title>
<link href="../Styles/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section>
<h2>ACADEMICS</h2>

<p>In addition to maintaining good grades and behaving appropriately in class, which was discussed in Level 1, a youth soccer player must remember that school is more important than sports. In fact, if a coach’s decision comes down to two athletes with the same amount of athleticism, the coach will almost always choose the athlete with the better grades. In addition, higher <a id="p124"/>academic achievement leads to acceptance into more colleges as well as more scholarship offers.</p>
<p>Middle school is obviously tougher than elementary school; nonetheless, grades must be maintained. Staying organized can go a long way toward helping a youth soccer player balance school and sports.</p>


<h3>HOW TO STAY ORGANIZED &gt;&gt;</h3>

<ul>
	<li>Prioritize schoolwork and make to-do lists for getting it done.</li>
	<li>Do what works best for your personal working style. For instance, are you good at multitasking? Or do you work best by focusing on finishing off one project at a time rather than balancing multiple tasks?</li>
</ul>

<p><span class="keyword heading">ONE LAST NOTE &gt;&gt;</span> Some youth soccer players con-sider transferring to a different high school than they’re supposed to go to in order to play for a certain coach. It’s far better to make sure that the high school provides a solid academic program that can help them better prepare for the SATs and for getting into the college of their choice.</p>
</section>
</body></html>