<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"/>
<title>The Complete Athlete</title>
<link href="../Styles/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section id="p190" class="featured">
<h1>MIA HAMM</h1>

<p>When I was stating high school, I was a good player and I was fast, but I wasn’t great. I enjoyed juggling the ball and working on shots, but I didn’t have good endurance and I didn’t have a great touch. I remember Anson Dorrance, the national team coach at the time, telling me he was worried about my progress and thought maybe he had brought me up too early with the training program. That was eye-opening for me, because I didn’t want to stop playing and I didn’t want to give up. What Coach Dorrance was saying to me wasn’t “You’re not good enough” but “It’s more than just being a competitor that’s going to keep you on this team. You have to commit to all of it.”</p>
<p>I remember going home and asking my dad if I could get a pair of running shoes. I’d never owned a pair just for running, but that was my way of forcing myself to take the training and conditioning seriously, instead of just focusing on certain skills or relying on my sprinting speed. I had always struggled with the fitness side of things, but I realized that I was going to have to make a change to work on endurance if I really wanted to have a chance at success. I also knew that success wasn’t going to be the result of my dad standing there with a stopwatch saying, “Do it again!” He could help me and be a part of my training, but the real force behind it had to be me. I had to be the one who wanted it and the one who had the discipline to actually put in the work. Athletes need to be mindful of their personal level of commitment to improving whatever it is that is holding them back, even if it is not the most enjoyable part of playing the game.</p>
<p>Even more important than that, though, is a willingness to put in the discipline to prepare yourself for college. <a id="p191"/>When I was 14 and just starting to go through the Olympic development program and making the state team, an older player who was just out of college came to work with us, and she and I started talking. She asked me how my grades were and I said, “Oh, they’re okay. I’m an okay student.” She stopped, looked right at me, and said, “Well, you need to be a great student. Your grades need to be your priority. You should put the same amount of work and commitment into your studies as you do your game.”</p>
<p>I remember how much that affected me because I realized that your grades matter for life after soccer. The reality of that situation hit me very hard, and it made a huge impact in terms of how I approached my schoolwork from then on. I realized that I needed to start being more consistent with my investment in studying rather than giving just a little splash of effort the night before a test or the last week of the grading period.</p>
<p>The opportunity to use your talent through the game to get a great education is a gift. Take advantage of that by adding the same discipline you use in soccer to the academic side of your life. You never know when your career is going to end, whether due to an injury or something else. You just never know what is going to happen, but at some point you are going to retire from soccer. At that point, whenever it comes, the value you put on your education is going to pay off. The investment you make there is going to last you a lot longer than your playing career, but the same tools that made you a successful player will translate to a successful academic record: time management, organization, intensity, team-work, and discipline.</p>
</section>
</body></html>