<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"/>
<title>The Complete Athlete</title>
<link href="../Styles/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section>
<h2>TEAMWORK</h2>

<p><span class="keyword heading">TEAMWORK</span> means working together as a group in order to achieve a goal. In sports, players contribute their individual skills and efforts in cooperation with their teammates to win games.</p>
<p>By Level 3, a youth soccer player is entering high school, and the pressure may be on to maximize her playing time in order to impress college recruiters. However, a soccer player who focuses more on her own individual performance instead of the team’s performance will probably not impress very many recruiters.</p>
<p><span class="keyword heading">ATHLETES &gt;&gt;</span> One of the common mistakes that players make when they are playing at a college event is to think it’s all about their individual performance within a game. <a id="p142"/>For example, if a midfielder has one of her dream schools looking at her, she can often try to play more than her role. Instead of doing the usual thing she always does—one touch, two touch, keeping her teammates moving, helping defensively, helping offensively, etc.—she starts doing things she usually doesn’t do, just trying to show off for the coach.</p>
<p>Right there, she’s dropping out of her role.</p>
<p>Once she loses that concept, she doesn’t realize how much she’s hurting herself. That’s one of the biggest things that I tell players over and over when we talk at half-time or after the game: You’ve just got to play your role and you are going to be fine. If everyone plays her role in this game, every single player is going to look her best and is going to feel very comfortable and very confident. The coach is going to see exactly what each player is doing and how she plays within the framework of the team. They will see that she knows her specific role in how she contributes to the overall success of the team. That’s one of the most important things to explain to a young athlete: Play your role and let your teammates play their roles, and everyone’s going to be fine. <span class="attribution">—Walid</span></p>
</section>
</body></html>