<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"/>
<title>The Complete Athlete</title>
<link href="../Styles/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section>
<h2 id="p139">RESPECT</h2>

<p>Showing <span class="keyword">Respect</span> means treating others in ways that show they have worth and value, and being considerate of other people’s feelings. In levels 1 and 2 we discussed treating coaches and players with respect. At Level 3, a youth soccer player should work on treating herself with respect.</p>
<p>One of the most important ways to show yourself respect is by forgiving yourself if you make a mistake in the game. Mistakes happen to everyone. The time you spend dwelling on them is time and concentration you’re taking away from other areas of your life. Get over it and get right back into the game.</p>
<p>Respecting yourself also means taking good care of yourself physically. As a youth athlete, you need to carefully nourish and hydrate your body according to the guidelines provided in this manual, not only for optimal performance on the field of play but also for optimal health and well-being. In addition, you must not be tempted to use performance-enhancing drugs or consume alcohol or other illegal substances.</p>
</section>
</body></html>