<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"/>
<title>The Complete Athlete</title>
<link href="../Styles/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section>
<h2>SPORTSMANSHIP</h2>

<p>Good <span class="keyword">Sportsmanship</span> starts with respect for one’s teammates, opponents, coaches, and officials. At Level 3, good sportsmanship is also demonstrated by players who maintain a positive attitude when dealing with adversity.</p>
<p>Accountability means taking responsibility for one’s own mistakes. In other words, if you make a <a id="p140"/>mistake or bad play, you accept it; you do not make excuses for why it happened, and you do not blame others for it. In addition, when you know you’ve made a mistake, you accept the ruling on the field and do not argue with coaches or officials.</p>
<p><span class="keyword heading">ATHLETES &gt;&gt;</span> There are a couple of teams we play each year that are loaded in talent in every position—and yet we consistently outperform them. The difference-maker is sportsmanship. The whole time we play them, they are bickering back and forth and blaming one another for missing passes or failing to congratulate one another when they make them. One of the most important elements in creating a winning culture and a team that performs its best is that edge of sportsmanship. When you are on the field—and off it—you know that your coaches and teammates all love and care for one another and each person takes responsibility for his or her own role. That’s one of the biggest pieces in becoming a complete athlete. <span class="attribution">—Walid and Ziad</span></p>
<p><span class="keyword heading">COACHES &gt;&gt;</span> As a coach, when I jump in on the drills with my players, playing keep-away or in a scrimmage, every time I make a bad pass or turn over the ball or miss a shot, I always tell them, “My fault, don’t worry about it. My bad, my bad!” Then, when the scrimmage or drill is over, I bring the kids in and I ask, “There was one thing I did a lot—what was it?”</p>
<p>Immediately, the players always say, “You always said, ‘My bad,’ when you messed up.”</p>
<p>“Exactly,” I tell them. “I took responsibility. Some of the best sportsmanship you can demonstrate is recognizing when something is your fault.”</p>
<p id="p141">In a game situation, when my team steps onto the field, one of the most recognizable things about them is how each player is accountable to her teammates. If a player makes a bad pass or misses a penalty kick, she says, “I’m sorry,” or offers a simple gesture, like a thumbs-up. If her teammates hear or see her, they quickly say, “Don’t worry about it!” It stands out so much in games because it is not only an example of great sportsmanship, but it also allows the player to feel loved by her teammates so that she doesn’t have to dwell on her mistakes. She acknowledges that she didn’t perform her best, but her teammates let her know she is valuable anyway. It helps everyone quickly recover emotionally from disappointments and move forward as a team. This is one of the most important habits a coach can teach his or her players. <span class="attribution">—Ziad</span></p>
</section>
</body></html>