<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"/>
<title>The Complete Athlete</title>
<link href="../Styles/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section>
<h2 id="p145">LEADERSHIP</h2>

<p>A good <span class="keyword">leader</span> is able to inspire and motivate others to do something that they would not normally do, or to perform better than they would on their own. A youth soccer player can sometimes motivate and inspire her fellow players in ways that coaches cannot.</p>
<p>As a youth soccer player enters high school at Level 3, she should continue to develop her leadership skills through her interactions with teammates. In fact, she may decide she’s ready to take her leadership skills to the next level by becoming a team leader.</p>
<p>A team leader needs to have the trust and respect of her teammates in order to be effective. One way to earn that trust and respect would be to encourage other players to come to her with questions, to bounce ideas off her, or even to complain. As her teammates’ confidence in her grows, she can help strengthen the team through team-building and problem-solving activities.</p>
<p><span class="keyword heading">ATHLETES &gt;&gt;</span> Every time I hear the word ”leadership,” I think of one particular player who will always stand out to me. Carly Malatskey was absolutely a model for leadership. The girl is just unbelievable; she brings it 365 days a year, 24/7. She leads by example: never late to practice (always half an hour early, in fact); she sets up drills; she asks what the team will be doing that day; she is the first one to run after balls that go astray during shooting drills when other players are stopping to get water; and she is so positive with everyone.</p>
<p id="p146">Most importantly, though, although she was the most gifted player in the country (and was the #1 recruit for Stanford), she stayed humble. She was so encouraging with all the players who were less able; she was so polite to all the officials. Whenever people asked me what was special about that group, I always said, “I have a great team, and I have an unbelievable leader.”</p>
<p>We were in a game where, as one of the final four, all we had to do was win to qualify for the national championship final game. We were up 3-2 when the referee added six minutes of stoppage time, and we maintained that lead for five minutes and fifty seconds. Then, in the last ten seconds of the stoppage time, the other team scored to tie the game and then bumped us out on the goal differential to qualify for the national championship game.</p>
<p>I can’t tell you how hard it was for me, as a coach, to watch that moment. Can you imagine how the players felt? The referee whistled the end of the game and a lot of the players went down, crying, on their knees, absolutely crushed. After the commitment and sacrifices they went through all year to get to that point, they were literally ten seconds away from making a national championship final—and it slips away.</p>
<p>As I was looking at that scene of the girls sunk on the field crushed and the girls on the bench crying, one person was standing up, holding herself together. Carly was reaching out to the other players, lifting them back up to their feet, hugging them, telling them it’s okay. That was one of her shining moments as a leader for the team. Here they were in their lowest moment, and yet she continued to encourage and support her teammates. <a id="p147"/>The Stanford coach happened to be at that game and he noticed her incredible leadership, too. He said, “I love that kid.” I said I did, too. He just shook his head and said, “What a leader. What a leader.”</p>
<p>That’s what is so important to remember: Select team coaches, college coaches, professional coaches—they are all looking for leaders. <span class="attribution">—Ziad</span></p>
<p class="athlete"><span class="keyword heading">KASSI MCCLUSKIE &gt;&gt;</span> Persistence is so important. Year after year after year, I was on a team that would travel out to California for the Surf Cup and get beaten terribly: 6-0 one year, 5-0 the next. It was painful. But we kept going because we knew that the only way to get better was to keep pushing ourselves by playing “up” against teams that were better than us, rather than playing teams we knew we could beat easily. Finally, in our fifth year, and after gradually getting better each year, we finally won the entire tournament my sophomore year of high school. It is still one of my favorite and most memorable wins because we had fought through the disappointment and discouragement for so long and had just kept fighting and improving and closing the gap until we finally came out on top!</p>
</section>
</body></html>