<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"/>
<title>The Complete Athlete</title>
<link href="../Styles/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section>
<h2>RECOVERY</h2>

<p>Youth soccer players need to eat and drink within 30 minutes of a practice or game to make up for the calories they are burning and fluids they are using. Replenishing calories and fluids also aids in muscle recovery and repair.</p>


<h3>HOW TO REPLENISH CALORIES AND FLUIDS &gt;&gt;</h3>

<ul>
	<li>Drink 24 ounces of fluid for every pound of sweat lost within a two-hour period of a game or practice.</li>
	<li>Consume 20–25 grams of protein plus an equal amount of carbohydrates within the 30-minute recovery window. </li>
</ul>

<p id="p155"><span class="runin-head">Sleep</span> An athlete’s body does its growing, healing, and muscle repair during sleep. A high-school—aged athlete may still be going through a growth spurt; therefore, sleep is crucial for proper growth and development. According to the National Sleep Foundation, a Level-3 youth athlete should get 8–10 hours of sleep each night for proper growth and development.</p>
<p>A lot of youth soccer players stress out about the amount of sleep they may be getting, especially the night before a big game. It’s best not to put too much emphasis on the quality of your sleep the night before game day, because the anticipation and excitement can cause restless sleep. Instead, consider the most important night of sleep to be two days before game day, and the second most important night of sleep to be three days before game day. Make sure you get the sleep you need on those nights, and try to rest up before the actual game on game day.</p>
<p><span class="keyword heading">COACHES &gt;&gt;</span> As athletes get older and the games get more intense, they need to focus even more on stretching and taking care of their muscles. One thing that my teams have started doing is that when we travel, we fill up a bathtub in the hotel with ice and the girls take turns using the ice bath to soothe their muscles after a game. If there is no bathtub in the rooms, we buy a big trash can and fill it with ice, and the players take turns going in.</p>
<p>I also make sure that the players take a walk after breakfast and stretch afterward. These are little things, but they help our players feel confident and mentally more prepared; most importantly, though, it helps those muscles recover for the next game. <span class="attribution">—Walid</span></p>
</section>
</body></html>