<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"/>
<title>The Complete Athlete</title>
<link href="../Styles/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section>
<h2 id="p149">PRACTICE</h2>

<p>A youth athlete who has surpassed Level 2 obviously considers soccer a huge part of her life. By this point, she should have already begun to work with a private soccer coach to master the basic techniques and to begin to learn a few position-specific skills.</p>
<p>At Level 3, a youth athlete should begin to identify those positions at which she is most proficient. Both her team soccer coaches as well as her private coach can help her decide which positions make the most sense for her. In addition to team <span class="keyword">practices</span> and one-on-one sessions with her private coach, the youth soccer player can continue her regular individual practice sessions, focusing extra attention on the skills needed for the positions she wants to play.</p>
<p><span class="keyword heading">ONE ADDITIONAL NOTE &gt;&gt;</span> College coaches look for—and recruit—the players who are contributing the most. The more proficient a player is at more positions, the more game time she will get.</p>
<p><span class="keyword heading">COACHES &gt;&gt;</span> When I took a team to Virginia to play in the Jefferson Cup, we were invited to visit the University of Virginia’s soccer facility by coach Steve Swanson, one of the top coaches in the country and assistant coach on the women’s national team. He showed us around and when we reached the locker room, I noticed a board covered with numbers. I asked him what it was about and he explained that after each practice, he has his players rate themselves, on a scale of 1 to 10, how they practiced as a team and then how they did individually.</p>
<p id="p150">That made a big impact on me, and I brought the idea home to implement with my teams. I tell my players that before they come to practice, they need to write down certain things that we need to accomplish. Then, on the back of that sheet of paper, they should start grading themselves and their practice. If they keep that sheet in the car and look at it before and after each practice, they can keep track over a month of how well they did.</p>
<p>For example, if a forward is working on shooting and makes five shots out of ten, she should write that down. At the next practice, she should aim to do one better; the practice after that, even better. It provides a way for the players to measure their success and also really to focus on beating the previous day’s grade. It elevates individual practice to a new level.</p>
<p>As a team, I have them discuss practice and go over how they are doing as a group while they cool down. How well did they work together? How much effort did they seem to invest in the practice as a unit? How well did they execute their drills and improve their skills? I have them come up with a rating so that they are grading themselves as a team, too. I think it is a really fantastic system and I credit Coach Swanson for such a great idea! <span class="attribution">—Walid</span></p>
</section>
</body></html>