<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"/>
<title>The Complete Athlete</title>
<link href="../Styles/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section>
<h2 id="p153">HYDRATION</h2>

<p>If an athlete does not drink enough water, she could suffer from dehydration. Warning signs of dehydration include:</p>

<ul>
	<li>Thirst</li>
	<li>Irritability</li>
	<li>Headache</li>
	<li>Weakness</li>
	<li>Dizziness</li>
	<li>Cramps</li>
	<li>Nausea</li>
	<li>Increased risk of injury</li>
</ul>

<h3>HOW TO MAINTAIN PROPER HYDRATION<a href="#note" epub:type="noteref">*</a> &gt;&gt;</h3>


<ul>
	<li>Before exercise, drink 16–20 full ounces within the 2–hour period prior to exercise.</li>
	<li>During exercise, drink 4–6 full ounces. </li>
	<li>After exercise, replace 24 full ounces for every one pound of body weight lost during exercise. </li>
</ul>

<aside id="note" class="citation" epub:type="footnote">* Adapted from guidelines provided by the American College of Sports Medicine (ACSM)</aside>

<p><span class="keyword heading">ATHLETES &gt;&gt;</span> I cannot stress enough the importance of hydration. A few years ago, we took a team to a college showcase called the Texas Shootout. Our players are all from Southern California and were not used to the heat and humidity, so despite our urging them to hydrate as much as possible, not everyone took the warning seriously.</p>
<p>One of the players had not had nearly enough water ahead of time and even though she absolutely dominated in the first half, she began cramping badly in the second <a id="p154"/>half. We eventually had to pull her and put another player in. As it turned out, a college coach had come specifically to watch her play … but he had only come for the second half of the game. It was such a waste of an opportunity.</p>
<p>I cannot stress enough how important it is to maintain proper nutrition—of which hydration is a major component—because it really has a direct impact on performance. And the fact is, college coaches could be at any game, not just a showcase. The high-school season runs during their off-season, so they can show up at any time. You’ve absolutely got to take care of your body, make sure you’re hydrated right, and be ready to perform! <span class="attribution">—Walid</span></p>
</section>
</body></html>