<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"/>
<title>The Complete Athlete</title>
<link href="../Styles/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section>
<h2 id="p156">MENTALITY</h2>

<p>Being a better athlete does not necessarily mean training harder or longer. Certainly a youth soccer player must spend time physically preparing her body to meet the demands of a practice session or game. Similarly, engaging in <span class="keyword">Mental Preparation</span> can help her perform at a higher level by creating the proper mindset for either practice or a game.</p>
<p>To be successful in any sport, athletes must apply 100 percent of their energy and thoughts toward each activity. In other words, they need to have their “heads in the game.” At Level 3, youth soccer players should work on staying focused.</p>


<h3>HOW TO IMPROVE YOUR FOCUS &gt;&gt;</h3>

<p>The following suggestions are adapted from <cite>Sports Psychology For Dummies</cite> by Leif H. Smith and Todd M. Kays.</p>
<p><span class="runin-head">Know what you need to focus on.</span> The clearer you are about what you need to focus on, the more likely you’ll be to stay focused on the factors that contribute to your success.</p>
<p><span class="runin-head">Focus on what you can control.</span> You have control over yourself and your own actions and attitudes—nothing more. Keep your focus here. If you focus on outcomes (things you have no control over), you’re creating unnecessary anxiety. Focus on the process and you increase the likelihood of positive results happening.</p>
<p id="p157"><span class="runin-head">Stay relaxed under pressure.</span> When you’re stressed and anxious, your focus drops. Find ways to stay calm in high-pressure situations, such as taking deep breaths, stretching muscles to loosen them, or engaging in effective routines to keep your focus where it needs to be.</p>
<p><span class="runin-head">Use cue words.</span> Cue words are simple words and phrases that remind you of your focus points. Repeating words and phrases such as <em>relax</em>, <em>play hard</em>, or <em>quick feet</em> will remind you to focus on what you need to do. If your mind is focused on your cue words, your body will follow.</p>
<p><span class="keyword heading">COACHES &gt;&gt;</span> I had a team that was playing to qualify for the national finals in Colorado, but the game was postponed a day due to thunderstorms … and then was postponed again. We had to change our flights, make sure we could secure our hotel rooms for another night—there was just so much to deal with. But the most important thing for me was making sure that the players were mentally prepared for the game.</p>
<p>I called a team meeting and had everyone step up and talk about their experience with the team and what the upcoming game meant and how it was going to give these girls, who were all juniors and seniors in high school, one last event and trip together as a team. I was trying to bring their mentality back to the game from the chaos of the disrupted travel plans. That was my motive, and it worked. The shift in focus was obvious. It helped the whole team center their minds on where they needed to be.</p>
<p>We had one girl who had injured her ankle—it was absolutely swollen—but Kayla Mills (who went on to play <a id="p158"/>for the University of Southern California and become the Pac-12 Defensive Player of the Year and who is now playing internationally), looked at her injured teammate and said, “You’re going to be ready to play tomorrow.”</p>
<p>The girl immediately answered, “I’m playing.” You could just feel the mentality in the room shifting as they all turned their focus toward the game.</p>
<p>When it was my turn to speak, I just told them all how much I loved them and how proud I was of them. Then I added, “When you sleep tonight, I want you to dream about that goal you are going to score, about that tackle you are going to make, about that save you are going to make.” Now that they had that laser-focus as a team, I wanted them to switch to thinking individually about how each person has to play her own part to make the team function as a whole. It really was an incredibly difficult match-up, and a tie wouldn’t be enough to get us into the finals; we had to win outright. Ziad called me that night and said, “Man, it’s going to be a tough game.” I told him, “We already won that game. The game is over with. Tomorrow is just a formality.” Sure enough, we won 3-1. Those girls just had their mentality exactly where it needed to be, thanks to the incredible energy and focus they managed despite all the stressors of the night before. <span class="attribution">—Walid</span></p>
<p class="athlete"><span class="keyword heading">KASSI MCCLUSKIE &gt;&gt;</span> When I was in high school, my team was in the regional finals, and right at the end of the game, I ended up scoring on my own team. We lost because of how I messed up a pass.</p>
<p class="athlete">I beat myself up so badly over that, because I believed everything was my fault, so feeling awful was the right <a id="p159"/>way to feel in that situation. Eventually, however, I came to realize that I had to find a balance. Yes, it was crushing and I should care enough to feel disappointed, take responsibility, and own up to my mistakes. But I also needed to recognize that I had been an integral part of my team’s success up to that point. My teammates were amazingly gracious and would reassure me, saying, “We wouldn’t have even gotten this far if it wasn’t for you being a part of our team”—and I finally realized that I needed to accept what they were saying and let that be part of my healing.</p>
<p class="athlete">Mistakes are going to happen. Usually they will be pretty small, but occasionally they will be huge. If that’s the case, it’s okay to be mad about it! In fact, that is healthy because it shows you take things seriously; but also allow yourself to let go and move forward. That’s the only way you’re going to get better and learn from it.</p>
<p class="athlete"><span class="keyword heading">CAMILLE LEVIN &gt;&gt;</span> The best advice I can offer an athlete in trying to find the right “fit” with a soccer program and coach is to look for a good balance. You want a coach who shows confidence in you and believes in you, but who will also push you the right amount to keep growing. The ultimate issue is whether or not your coach is supportive of you and your development. Winning is important, of course, but you need to look for a team that offers you more than just a lot of wins.</p>
<p class="athlete">It all depends on the individual. Some people respond better to one type of coaching personality and some to another. Just be honest about what way works best for you and then seek out a coach who manages the team in that way and makes you feel valued as well as challenged.</p>
</section>
</body></html>