<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"/>
<title>The Complete Athlete</title>
<link href="../Styles/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section>
<h2 id="p161">LOWER-BODY STRENGTH</h2>

<p>The demands to your fitness and health during practice and games can depend on how strong you are in your legs. We know stronger legs can make you faster to the point of contact, but they can also allow you to out-jump your opponent for free balls in the air or win slide tackles. Strong and fit lower bodies are the foundation of staying healthy and being able to absorb the pounding of tough practices or long seasons. You will still be tested and should show improvement with the single-leg squat and broad jump, but we have added the vertical test now, which will measure how powerful your legs are to jump up high. Your strength in jumping is a major test colleges will want to see. When an athlete has equal strength in both legs, she will produce higher scores.</p>

<h3>TO PERFORM SINGLE-LEG SQUATS &gt;&gt;</h3>

<ul>
	<li>Stand on one leg while your other leg is lifted off the ground in front of your body. Your hip should be bent to approximately 45 degrees and your knee bent to approximately 90 degrees. </li>
	<li>Hold your arms out straight in front of you with the hands clasped together. From this position, squat down until your knee is bent to approximately 60 degrees.</li>
	<li>Return to the start position and repeat.</li>
</ul>

<h3>TO PERFORM A SINGLE-LEG WALL SIT &gt;&gt;</h3>

<ul>
	<li>Stand with your back against a smooth vertical wall and your feet approximately shoulder-width apart. </li>
	<li>Slowly slide your back down the wall until both knees and hips are at a 90-degree angle. </li>
	<li id="p162">Lift one foot off the ground and hold it as long as possible. After a period of rest, lift the other foot and hold it. </li>
</ul>

<p><span class="keyword heading">NOTE &gt;&gt;</span> If you can hold one foot up considerably longer than the other, you may need to work on developing a better balance of strength in both legs.</p>

<h3>TO PERFORM A BROAD JUMP &gt;&gt;</h3>

<ul>
	<li>Stand behind a line marked on the ground, with your feet slightly apart. </li>
	<li>Use a two-foot takeoff and landing, swinging your arms and bending your knees to provide forward drive. </li>
	<li>Jump as far as possible, landing on both feet without falling backward. </li>
</ul>

<p><span class="keyword heading">NOTE &gt;&gt;</span> Broad jump is a great linear measurement of power in the legs.</p>

<h3>TO PERFORM A VERTICAL JUMP TEST &gt;&gt;</h3>

<ul>
	<li>Stand next to any wall and, with your feet completely flat, reach up with your hand closest to the wall and measure the highest point you can touch. (This is easier to do with two people so the other person can mark and measure.)</li>
	<li>With your arm still raised, jump as high as you can and note how high you are able to touch.</li>
	<li>Measure the distance between the two points for your vertical jump score.</li>
</ul>
</section>
</body></html>