<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"/>
<title>The Complete Athlete</title>
<link href="../Styles/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section>
<h2>CORE STRENGTH</h2>

<p>Building up core strength for an athlete competing in top club teams or trying to break into the starting lineup for high school can be the game-changer. Don’t forget that the core is the glue for all the hard work you have been doing in the gym training your whole body for athletic success. It allows the larger muscles to convert energy into whatever athletic move you are going to make, be it kicking a ball or dodging an opponent.</p>

<h3 id="p167">TO PERFORM A PLANK &gt;&gt;</h3>

<ul>
	<li>Get down on the floor with your hands slightly wider than shoulder-width apart and your arms straight and supporting your weight.</li>
	<li>Make sure your body stays straight—your hips shouldn’t be sticking way up in the air or sagging.</li>
	<li>Hold this position for as long as you can.</li>
</ul>

<h3>TO PERFORM A SIDE PLANK &gt;&gt;</h3>

<ul>
	<li>Lie on your side with your legs straight.</li>
	<li>Prop your upper body up on your elbow and forearm. Make sure your elbow is aligned with your shoulder.</li>
	<li>Brace your core by contracting your abs forcefully and then raise your hips until your body forms a straight line from your ankles to your shoulders. </li>
	<li>Breathe deeply while holding this position. </li>
	<li>Repeat this exercise on your other side.</li>
</ul>

<p>The <span class="keyword">hip-lift march</span> helps to measure—and improve—the strength and endurance of your back muscles.</p>

<h3>TO PERFORM A HIP-LIFT MARCH &gt;&gt;</h3>

<ul>
	<li>Lie flat on your back with your knees bent 90 degrees and your feet flat on the ground.</li>
	<li>Lift your hips as high as possible, with only your shoulders and feet touching the ground.</li>
	<li>While keeping your hips at the same height, lift each knee in a controlled marching motion for as long as possible.</li>
</ul>
</section>
</body></html>