<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"/>
<title>The Complete Athlete</title>
<link href="../Styles/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section>
<h2 id="p177">FAMILY</h2>

<p>College coaches want mature, respectful&#160;student-athletes as part of their program. Many observe how prospects treat their parents when they visit the school. Youth soccer players who have worked hard to maintain positive relationships with their families will definitely stand out.</p>
<p>In Levels 1 and 2, a youth soccer player’s parents take on a fair amount of responsibility. At Level 3, parents are probably spending a great deal more money for soccer, in terms of better equipment, private coaching sessions, and more. They are also likely devoting even more of their time to support their daughter’s desire to excel in soccer.</p>
<p>As a youth soccer player moves into more serious levels of play, she should begin to assume more of the responsibility for soccer activities. This helps the youth soccer player learn to be independent and self-sufficient, two traits that she will need to succeed in college.</p>


<h3>HOW TO BECOME MORE INDEPENDENT AND SELF-SUFFICIENT &gt;&gt;</h3>

<ul>
	<li>Always remember all that your parents do to support you. Be grateful. NEVER take your parents for granted.</li>
	<li>Try to be helpful around the house. At the very least, keep your room clean and pick up after yourself.</li>
	<li>Always have your equipment well organized. Your parents should never have to nag you about getting ready for games and practices. </li>
	<li id="p178">Once you earn a driver’s license, drive yourself to practices.</li>
	<li>If you’re exhausted or sore from soccer, do something about it; don’t whine to everyone or walk around in a bad mood. Take a nap if you’re tired. To relieve sore muscles, try taking a bath with Epsom salts.</li>
</ul>

<p><span class="keyword heading">ATHLETES AND PARENTS &gt;&gt;</span> The most common questions I get asked when I get a phone call from a collegiate coach are: How is the player? How is she as a person? How is her lifestyle? Can you talk to me about her parents?</p>
<p>What is important for players and parents both to realize is that not every kid out there is a blue chip. When coaches make their home visits and meet with the player and her family—or even just talk with her after a game—the coach is looking at a dozen other players at the same level in terms of both talent and academics. The difference-maker is, very often, whether the player showed respect to her parents and the way the parents represented themselves in that brief moment in which the coach encountered them. Are the parents going to be an absolute nightmare to deal with? And, more importantly, does the athlete show respect to her parents, or was she cutting them off, ordering them around, and just being rude? If a player doesn’t have respect for her parents, how can she have respect for her coach? It is really important that athletes realize that coaches are looking for that. At the end of the day, that coach is going to have that player for four years—five, if she red-shirts. Coaches want a player who is a <span class="keyword">complete athlete</span>, shows respect, and has parents who are going to be supportive. <span class="attribution">—Ziad</span></p>
</section>
</body></html>