<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"/>
<title>The Complete Athlete</title>
<link href="../Styles/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section>
<h2 id="p185">SOCIAL LIFE AND ROLE MODEL</h2>

<p>At Level 3, a youth soccer player’s <span class="keyword">Social Life</span> may take a back seat to academics and sports. However, maintaining positive relationships with friends is still very important. Young people who maintain strong friendships tend to be happier and more successful in school as well as on the field.</p>
<p>At this point in a youth soccer player’s life, her closest friends may be fellow soccer players, because these are the people she spends most of her time with. These are also the people she has the most in common with. The truth is, many lifelong friendships are formed between youth athletes who play the same sport. However, lifelong friendships are usually only developed by people who know how to recognize—and be—a true friend.</p>

<h3>HOW TO RECOGNIZE—AND BE—A TRUE FRIEND &gt;&gt;</h3>

<p><span class="runin-head">Be trustworthy.</span> True friends earn trust by always having each other’s back and never sharing anything that was said in confidence.</p>
<p><span class="runin-head">Share values.</span> True friends share many of the same values, such as getting good grades or playing fair.</p>
<p><span class="runin-head">Be empathetic.</span> True friends are happy for each other when good things happen and sympathetic when bad things happen.</p>
<p><span class="runin-head">Continue to be a good role model.</span> Model good behavior by staying away from illegal drugs, alcohol, tobacco, and performance-enhancing substances, and by avoiding other risky behaviors.</p>
<p id="p186"><span class="runin-head">Agree to disagree.</span> Friendships are tested when disagreements occur, but true friends work to move past the disagreements and don’t abandon the friendship because of them.</p>
<p>Sometime friendships do end because of disagreements. For instance, if you have a friend who gets into drugs or alcohol, or engages in other risky behaviors, she may try to get you to participate as well. Although you may want to try to help her, her problems are probably too big for you to handle. Your best bet may be to walk away from the friendship so that you can continue to be a good role model for your other friends.</p>
<p><span class="keyword heading">ATHLETES &gt;&gt;</span> Social media plays a huge factor in every-thing these days, and athletes have to be smart about how they use it. Kids love to post everything they do, but many don’t think about the fact that the college coaches who are investing in them are tracking social media, too.</p>
<p>We had one player who committed to a very well-known, dry university. She had the grades and the talent, and everything looked good to go. One month before she was set to sign her letter of intent, I got a call from the college coach, saying, “Hey, I just wanted to let you know that we are not going to take her.”</p>
<p>I was baffled. “Why not? She already committed and everything.”</p>
<p>He said, “I know, but she just posted photos on Twitter and Instagram of herself drinking at a party. If she is doing that her senior year, how do you think she is going to be in college? This isn’t going to work. If she is partying already, it’s going to be a big problem. <a id="p187"/>She is better off finding a place that suits her than coming here.”</p>
<p>Student athletes have got to understand that they are getting a substantial amount of money, in the form of college costs, to play. The majority of scholarships are anywhere between $100,000 and $200,000, over four years. You have to learn to behave and you have to learn how to be smart about how you handle social media. <span class="attribution">—Ziad</span></p>

<p class="athlete"><span class="keyword heading">KASSI MCCLUSKIE &gt;&gt;</span> As you continue to rise through the levels, you have to be honest about what you are willing to sacrifice for your sport. You will miss birthday parties and dances. I grew up in Arizona, but Thanksgiving, for me, was always spent in California, playing in the Surf Cup Tournament. New Year’s Eve was always spent in Florida, playing for another tournament.</p>
<p class="athlete">The club I played for growing up in Arizona had very specific rules: our shirts had to be tucked in, we had to maintain discipline while warming up, we had certain ways we had to line up, we always arrived early for practice—all of those little things were part of learning professionalism. Understanding and appreciating sacri-fice is part of that. In the real world, you are going to have to sacrifice things to get what you want. It’s all about knowing your priorities and your goals.</p>
</section>
</body></html>