<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"/>
<title>The Complete Athlete</title>
<link href="../Styles/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section class="featured">
<h1 id="p242">MIA HAMM</h1>
<p>Confidence and self-reliance are absolutely essential for succeeding in college.</p>
<p>One thing I have learned after working as a coach is that the older you get, the less people are going to work to bring you in if they see you aren’t committed. When you’re younger, people will work really hard to draw you in and say, “Come on! Let’s be part of the group now.” And if you say, “No, no, no, I don’t want to,” and run away, an adult will run after you and bring you back. The older a child gets, the less energy people are willing to spend trying to engage them to be a part of things. It is also true in the classroom and in the professional world. If you are applying for a job and the first thing you say is, “I’m not really sure I want to work here … ,” the interview is over. If you show up for class and you’re not prepared or organized, the professor has 100 other students to worry about; he or she is not going to bend over backward to accommodate you or chase you down for missing assignments. You have to be willing and able to show up and be all in—and that can be tough if you’ve always relied on your parents to take care of everything.</p>
<p>Literally the day after I graduated from high school, my family moved overseas for six years because my dad was in the military. I had arrangements to stay with a friend over the summer until it was time to leave for school, so I was really in a sink-or-swim situation; I couldn’t just drive home for the weekend if something didn’t work out the way I wanted it to. I had to figure out how to make things work. That is one of the most important ways of thinking for successful college athletes. You have to be all in and you have to be determined to make it all work out.</p>
<p id="p243">I went to the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, and athletes didn’t get any perks when it came to scheduling, no matter what time our practices were. You just had to figure out how to make things work. When I was enrolled, drop/adds were all handled by hand instead of by computer. Tables were set up for each class in the gym during registration, and people would bring by index cards with the classes they were changing and you just had to wait and hope that someone dropped off a card with the class and time you needed. I remember lying on the floor all day long, just waiting for the 9:00-AM political science class I needed to open up. If someone came by with a card, I would pop up and ask if it was the 9:00 class. If they said it was the 11:00, I just had to say, “Okay, thanks,” lie back down, and wait for the next person to come along. I got the class eventually, but it literally took hours of patience, waiting, and asking. You have to be willing to be proactive and take responsibility for getting done what needs doing, no matter how unpleasant or inconvenient.</p>
<p>It is also very important to find mentors in your program to help you learn the ropes and stay on course. Carla Overbeck was a senior when I was a freshman, and we ended up playing on the national team together. In college, though, it was great being able to study how she handled herself and managed to play and succeed in her classes and just navigate everything. Just having someone who has been through it and understands things a bit more fully can instill such a sense of confidence during that first year or two, when everything is so new and can be so overwhelming. That is such an important tool for success: be willing to be mentored—and then take someone under your wing once you’re one of the veteran players.</p>
</section>
</body></html>