<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"/>
<title>The Complete Athlete</title>
<link href="../Styles/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section>
<h2 id="p197">SPORTSMANSHIP</h2>

<p>Good<span class="keyword"> Sportsmanship</span> starts with respect for one’s teammates, opponents, coaches, and officials. It also includes maintaining a positive attitude when dealing with adversity—or victory.</p>
<p>At Level 4, the stakes are higher and the pressure to win is greater. Student-athletes often play with a great deal of emotion, putting everything they’ve got into the game. Some find it difficult to contain their emotions before, during, and at the end of the game.</p>
<p>A Level 4 <span class="keyword">COMPLETE ATHLETE</span> demonstrates good</p>
<p>sportsmanship by:</p>

<ul>
	<li>Not trash-talking the other team or players online or off before the game.</li>
	<li>Graciously shaking hands with opponents before and after each game.</li>
	<li>Not gloating if her team wins.</li>
	<li>Sincerely congratulating the other team if her team loses.</li>
</ul>

<p><span class="keyword heading">ATHLETES &gt;&gt;</span> I will never forget when I was watching the NCAA Final Four with one of my teams and at half-time, there was a special reflecting on the best and worst moments of the season. One of the things they highlighted was when a player from one particular school lost control of her emotions during a game, grabbed the other player by her hair, and dragged her down. It was such a violent pull that it almost broke the other girl’s neck. It was unbelievable to watch and it was on ESPN. It was one of the most watched clips on YouTube.</p>
<p id="p198">When the game was over and we were discussing how it had all played out, I told the girls to reflect back on that moment we saw during half-time. There it was: just one moment of losing control in a game, and it could impact a player for the rest of her career, both on and off the field. Games are streamed live now so anyone can watch them, and there are people who are just waiting for moments like that to capitalize on and make go viral.</p>
<p>I stressed to my players the importance of controlling their emotions, regardless of whether they are winning or losing, regardless of whether someone is trash-talking, regardless of whether someone is playing dirty. Part of being an athlete is dealing with hecklers who just want to get under your skin. They may follow you on Facebook or troll you online, throwing out all sorts of personal information like if you just broke up with your boyfriend or are still with your girlfriend or whatever it is they think they can throw at you to get a rise. There is going to be a situation, sooner or later, where some other player or fan is going to find some way to get under your skin, so you have to be ready to deflect it and use that anger to your advantage, instead of losing focus on the game. It is really, really important that every player be able to shield herself and develop that sense of personal control that is going to make her a <span class="keyword">complete athlete</span>. <span class="attribution">—Ziad</span></p>
<p><span class="keyword heading">COACHES &gt;&gt;</span> Some of the best days of the year for me as a coach are the weekends from September to December when the NCAA Women’s Soccer games are being played. Every Friday and Saturday, I have the opportunity to travel locally or across the country to watch some of my former athletes play. No matter how they perform in the game, my greatest pleasure is just to watch them afterward go right up front to shake hands <a id="p199"/>and congratulate the other team on a good game—win or lose.</p>
<p>I can’t tell you what a privilege it is for me to sit there in the bleachers and watch our alumnae demonstrating such sportsmanship, being sincere, controlling their emotions, and being gracious right there at the front of the line. It is a habit we try to ingrain in our players at the youngest levels, and it just makes my heart swell to see them taking those lessons and carrying on that tradition.</p>
<p>I always tell them, ”You never know—one day that girl you played against for many years who was always your rival but whom you treated with the utmost respect could be the person across the desk interviewing you for a job.” Sportsmanship doesn’t just matter on the field; it says so much about your character in real life. <span class="attribution">—Ziad</span></p>
</section>
</body></html>