<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"/>
<title>The Complete Athlete</title>
<link href="../Styles/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section>
<h2 id="p195">RESPECT</h2>

<p>At Level 4, a youth soccer player becomes a college-level student-athlete. By achieving Level 4, a student-athlete has consistently demonstrated <span class="keyword">respect</span> for her coaches, game officials, teammates, and opponents, as well as for herself. These skills will likely be tested while she is in college.</p>
<p>In college, a student-athlete is under a great deal of pressure to perform—both on the field and in the classroom. There are also many more temptations to engage in activities that do not contribute to her health and well-being, such as drinking alcohol or taking performance-enhancing drugs or other illegal substances.</p>
<p>At Level 4, a student-athlete should always demonstrate respect for the game of soccer. Taking performance-enhancing drugs violates the rules as well as the integrity with which she plays, and should be avoided at all times.</p>
<p><span class="keyword heading">ATHLETES &gt;&gt;</span> I remember once a player called me from college after a really terrible weekend. Her Friday game didn’t go her way, and then her game on Sunday was even worse. When we talked on Monday, my first question to her was, “So, what did you do after your game on Friday?” She didn’t really want to answer me, so I asked her again. Finally she admitted that she went out with her friends after the game to a fraternity party, and then she went home and slept in late.</p>
<p>I said, “Okay, can I ask you another question? If that was still Slammers and you had a bad game, what would you have done on Saturday before your game on Sunday?”</p>
<p id="p196">“I would have gotten up early and trained,” she answered immediately. “I would have taken a bag of balls and gotten my confidence back up and my mind right.”</p>
<p>“So what’s the difference between Slammers or when you were a club player or when you were a youth player … and now?”</p>
<p>Never forget what got you to where you are now. Never forget your roots. Dealing with a bad game at a collegiate level should be just the same. Going out with your friends or trying to forget the bad game by partying is definitely not the answer. You’ve got to respect the game and you’ve got to respect yourself. <span class="attribution">—Ziad</span></p>
</section>
</body></html>