<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"/>
<title>The Complete Athlete</title>
<link href="../Styles/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section>
<h2 id="p203">LEADERSHIP</h2>

<p>A youth soccer player may have become a team <span class="keyword">leader</span> in high school. As she moves on to college play, she may hope to continue in that role. A leader for a college-level team must be able to:</p>

<ul>
	<li>Communicate effectively and present expectations clearly </li>
	<li>Listen patiently and open-mindedly to the input and opinions of others</li>
	<li>Treat all teammates fairly and never play favorites</li>
	<li>Be open and honest with teammates</li>
</ul>

<p><span class="keyword heading">ATHLETES &gt;&gt;</span> In the off-season, as a leader for your team at a collegiate level, you have responsibilities both on and off the field. Since NCAA rules do not allow teams to train year-round, you need to step up and provide that guidance during the times your season is not actively underway. Your team needs to stay in practice, which is why a good leader needs to have the right attitude for keeping things on track.</p>
<p>Most teams have a number of awards—MVP, best defensive player, best offensive player—but especially at the collegiate level, leadership is so essential to the success of the team that every single program I know of has an award to honor the player that best espouses those traits. For coaches, one of the hardest things is to identify these natural leaders on each team and then to feel comfortable essentially giving them the keys to the car during the off-season.</p>
<p>On the field, you are functioning in some ways as a coach, because you are helping to drive practice in lieu of your <a id="p204"/>official coach—steering your teammates from one drill to the next, dictating when breaks start and end, holding your teammates accountable for their effort and what they are putting into the practice. Even though there are no specific games to plan for, you still have to be able to motivate your teammates to stay engaged in keeping up with their skills, training, fitness, and eligibility.</p>
<p>As a team leader off the field, you are following up with all the players on how they are doing in their classes, and reminding them to make good choices about how and when they socialize. If you lead by example and show your teammates you are more concerned about serving the good of the team rather than your own individual glory, they will be far more willing to follow you.</p>
<p>Camille Levin is a fantastic example of someone who understood the importance of this kind of servant leadership. She was a leader on her team during the off-season and proved her commitment to team over self by the way she played. In the National Championship game against Duke, she went down the line from the outside back, dribbled past several players, and lost the ball, but she didn’t give up on it. There was a slight tackle, but she got the ball back and crossed it to a teammate—who actually scored the goal. Even though she was the one who really drove that ball the length of the field and could have reasoned that the shot was really “hers” to take, she instead passed it to a teammate who was in a better position to score. She had always led from a place of toughness but selflessness. And that toughness and selflessness made all the difference. Her team was seasoned and ready to block their opponents in a gruelingly physical game, and the pass she made, rather than take the shot herself, resulted in the point that won the game and the title. <span class="attribution">—Walid and Ziad</span></p>
<p id="p205" class="athlete"><span class="keyword heading">CAMILLE LEVIN &gt;&gt;</span> My freshman year at Stanford, I was two weeks into pre-season when the coaches suddenly said, “We’re going to put you at center-mid because we think you can do it.” I had been recruited as a right wing and that was what I played in the national team system, too, so that was a bit of a shake-up for me. But I was also pretty excited at the chance, because there were two upperclassmen who also played right wing and obviously wanted a spot on the field, so I would have ended up behind them. Changing positions meant that I would have more time on the field, so I was willing to do it in order to play. I ended up playing center-mid the entire season, and it was a great year! We made it to the final four and lost just one game that season.</p>
<p class="athlete">My senior year of college, I played as a winger most of the season. But right before the national title tournament, our center-back went down and our coach tapped me to move to her position, even though I had never played it before. I knew that it was the best thing for our team, though, so I went with it.</p>
<p class="athlete">You have to stay confident and know that you are being put there for a reason. I reminded myself that this was the tournament—not a time to gamble. The coach would not be putting me in that position unless he was confident with that decision. I knew my team and I was confident in them. Sure, your mentality changes a little bit based on your position, because you have different roles; but at the end of the day, it is still the same game you’ve played for so long.</p>
</section>
</body></html>