<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"/>
<title>The Complete Athlete</title>
<link href="../Styles/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section>
<h2 id="p207">PRACTICE</h2>

<p>At Level 4, an athlete is playing soccer at the college level, and <span class="keyword">practice</span> sessions are supervised by an elite coaching staff. However, because they are working with an entire team of soccer players, that staff will be limited in the time they are able to spend with each individual athlete. In addition, at NCAA colleges and universities, rules are in place to limit the amount of practice and conditioning time required by and supervised by the coaches.</p>
<p>Student-athletes who want to achieve higher levels of success—or even just want to maintain the success they’ve already achieved—must practice drills and perform con-ditioning activities independently or alongside team-mates without the direct supervision of the coaches.</p>


<h3>HOW TO WORK INDEPENDENTLY OF COACHES &gt;&gt;</h3>

<ul>
	<li>Develop your own practice schedules that include the skills you want or need to improve as well as those you’ve already mastered. </li>
	<li>Create a conditioning schedule that allows you to work each muscle group with at least one day of rest in between.</li>
	<li>Incorporate the technical knowledge you’ve gained up to this point.</li>
	<li>Listen to your body to train and practice safely with minimal risk of injury. </li>
	<li>Continue to practice and perform conditioning activities throughout the off-season to maintain your athleticism. </li>
	<li>If possible, continue to work with a private coach. </li>
</ul>

<p id="p208"><span class="keyword heading">ATHLETES &gt;&gt;</span> Of all the resources available at the college level, access to game tapes is one of the most valuable. Often, players will call us and say, “I had a bad game and I don’t know what I did wrong.”</p>
<p>The first thing we suggest is checking out the recording of the game. A lot of schools now even offer individual DVDs for each player, where they break it down so that each athlete can see every time she touched the ball. Players have to take advantage of that, because the video doesn’t lie—it will show you what you did right and what you did wrong.</p>
<p>If you take that seriously and really study what happened as you watch, you can think about your weaknesses more objectively and arrive at practice early the next day to work on whatever you need to, or stay late and work with the assistant coach on the specific issue you’re having. That makes your practice more effective.</p>
<p>Camille Levin could dribble through everybody, but her one weakness was crossing. She started to study herself on tape as a scholarship player at Stanford, and then she began drilling to improve. In the national championship game against Duke, she dribbled through everybody and then came to the byline and hit the one cross that went past everyone and onto the head of a teammate to fire into the goal and win the title. If she had not taken advantage of those videos in order to study her weaknesses, that moment probably never would have occurred. <span class="attribution">—Walid and Ziad</span></p>
</section>
</body></html>