<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"/>
<title>The Complete Athlete</title>
<link href="../Styles/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section>
<h2>HYDRATION</h2>

<p>Athletes should drink water before, during, and after practices and games. This is especially important on days when both temperatures and humidity levels are high.</p>

<h3>HOW TO MAINTAIN PROPER HYDRATION<a href="#note" epub:type="noteref">*</a> &gt;&gt;</h3>


<ul>
	<li>Before exercise, drink 16–20 full ounces within the 2–hour period prior to exercise. </li>
	<li>During exercise, drink 4–6 full ounces. </li>
	<li>After exercise, replace 24 full ounces for every one pound of body weight lost during exercise. </li>
</ul>

<aside id="note" class="citation" epub:type="footnote">* Adapted from guidelines provided by the American College of Sports Medicine (ACSM)</aside>

<p><span class="keyword heading">ATHLETES &gt;&gt;</span> At the collegiate level, you are practicing more than you’ve ever practiced. You’re training five times a week, plus games—and the intensity and the speed of play increases. You are up against players who are older, stronger, and more experienced than you. Hydration plays a large part in how you’re going to perform at this level, so make sure you are constantly hydrating. Take advantage of the Gatorade on the sidelines; carry a water bottle with you at all times. Make sure you are getting fluids in your system, because it’s going to be a huge X-factor in your performance.</p>
</section>
</body></html>