<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"/>
<title>The Complete Athlete</title>
<link href="../Styles/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section>
<h2 id="p214">MENTALITY</h2>

<p>Being a better athlete does not necessarily mean training harder or longer. Certainly a youth soccer player must spend time physically preparing her body to meet the demands of a practice session or game. Similarly, engaging in <span class="keyword">Mental Preparation</span> can help her perform at a higher level by creating the proper mindset for either practice or a game.</p>
<p>At Level 4, the focus is on learning mental imagery. Mental imagery is simply seeing yourself perform successfully before you even step on the field of play. Student-athletes who can envision themselves performing successfully will perform better.</p>
<p>Mental imagery takes practice and requires a great deal of concentration. However, the more you train your mind to focus on the right things, the more it will respond. Using all of your senses helps. For example, imagine the smell of the grass as you move along the field of play. See yourself getting ready to perform a penalty kick. Feel your foot as it moves to kick the ball, and hear the sound it makes as it connects with the ball. Finally, envision a perfect penalty kick.</p>
<p><span class="keyword heading">ATHLETES &gt;&gt;</span> Again, at the collegiate level, athletes should take advantage of the resources schools have in place to help their scholarship athletes excel. Work with the sports psychologist on staff, or try some kind of yoga or meditation—whatever is available to you, give it a try. There is a reason those different options and opportunities are there, so don’t be afraid to explore outside the box.</p>
<p id="p215" class="athlete"><span class="keyword heading">KASSI MCCLUSKIE &gt;&gt;</span> I was an emotional player. I’m not ashamed to admit that I sometimes cried when we lost because I wanted to be the better team. I think many of us are like that, and I think it is something we should embrace.</p>
<p class="athlete">Sometimes, female athletes feel like they have to “toughen up” and not allow themselves to show any emotion because emotion is often seen as a sign of weakness. Some women really are naturally unemotion-al or understated with their feelings; if that is the way you are, that’s great. But if you are like me and you really wear your heart on your sleeve when you play, don’t think you have to change who you are or hide how you feel—that can sometimes make you even more emotional because you end up feeling like you have to bottle everything up. Instead, I suggest you channel all those feelings into your game.</p>
<p class="athlete">I wish, when I was younger, that someone had told me to embrace my emotion and make it part of my playing style. It would have helped me recognize my unique playing style and approach to leadership much sooner. It’s okay to let people know you care about your game! If that’s who you are, pour your heart into your game and don’t think you ever need to be ashamed or embarrassed of that aspect of yourself.</p>
</section>
</body></html>