<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"/>
<title>The Complete Athlete</title>
<link href="../Styles/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section>
<h2 id="p217">LOWER-BODY STRENGTH</h2>

<p>Level 4 builds on what you have done in Level 3. You should be getting stronger, more explosive, and better balanced. You will see that strength in the lower body has been the difference in keeping you healthy and dynamic on the pitch. At this level, you may be trying to make a college starting roster or even a national team roster. Chances are, your skills are at a very high level; now, you must have elite-level strength in your lower body to set yourself apart from the rest. We are pushing your test numbers higher because we know you are nearing the top of the food chain in soccer, which very few athletes reach; separators are usually in the work ethic and strength. Your times are extended, the reps are higher, and the distances have increased.</p>

<h3>TO PERFORM SINGLE-LEG WALL SQUATS &gt;&gt;</h3>


<ul>
	<li>Stand on one leg while your other leg is lifted off the ground in front of the body. Your hip should be bent to approximately 45 degrees and your knee bent to approximately 90 degrees. </li>
	<li>Hold your arms out straight in front of you with your hands clasped together. From this position, squat down until your knee is bent to approximately 60 degrees.</li>
	<li>Return to the start position and repeat.</li>
</ul>

<h3 id="p218">TO PERFORM A SINGLE-LEG WALL SIT &gt;&gt;</h3>

<ul>
	<li>Stand with your back against a smooth vertical wall and your feet approximately shoulder-width apart. </li>
	<li>Slowly slide your back down the wall until both knees and hips are at a 90-degree angle. </li>
	<li>Lift one foot off the ground and hold it as long as possible. After a period of rest, lift the other foot and hold it. </li>
</ul>

<p><span class="keyword heading">NOTE &gt;&gt;</span> If you can hold one foot up considerably longer than the other, you may need to work on developing a better balance of strength in both legs.</p>

<h3>TO PERFORM A BROAD JUMP &gt;&gt;</h3>

<ul>
	<li>Stand behind a line marked on the ground, with your feet slightly apart.</li>
	<li>Use a two-foot takeoff and landing, swinging your arms and bending your knees to provide drive. </li>
	<li>Jump as far as possible, landing on both feet without falling backward.</li>
</ul>

<p><span class="keyword heading">NOTE &gt;&gt;</span> The broad jump is a great linear measurement of power in the legs.</p>



<h3>TO PERFORM A VERTICAL JUMP TEST &gt;&gt;</h3>

<ul>
	<li>Stand next to any wall and, with your feet completely flat, reach up with your hand closest to the wall and measure the highest point you can touch. (This is easier to do with two people so the other person can mark and measure.)</li>
	<li>With your arm still raised, jump as high as you can and note how high you are able to touch.</li>
	<li id="p219">Measure the distance between the two points for your vertical jump score.</li>
</ul>
</section>
</body></html>