<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"/>
<title>The Complete Athlete</title>
<link href="../Styles/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section>
<h2 id="p238">ACADEMICS</h2>

<p>Many student-athletes assume they’ll go on to play their sport professionally after college, or even before graduating. The truth is, there are more than 460,000 NCAA student-athletes, and fewer than two percent will go pro in their sports.</p>
<p>The experiences of college athletics and the life lessons student-athletes learn along the way will help them as they pursue a career in any field. Student-athletes should take advantage of every resource and opportunity available to them at the college or university they attend. In fact, many NCAA colleges and universities provide special resources to their student-athletes, including:</p>
<p><span class="runin-head">Academic tutors</span> for both group and individualized tutoring</p>
<p><span class="runin-head">Academic centers</span> that include tutoring space, indi-vidual and group study spaces, computer labs, and more</p>
<p><span class="runin-head">Individualized academic counseling</span> to help student-athletes develop a plan for successfully man-aging their academic pursuits and reaching their aca-demic goals</p>
<p><span class="runin-head">Career development resources,</span> including career-placement services for summer internships and job opportunities, résumé workshops, alumni net-working, e-mail updates for job fairs and internship postings, and more.</p>
<p>Whether or not a student-athlete intends to go on to pursue soccer at the professional level, she should <a id="p239"/>absolutely maintain her grades throughout college and graduate with a degree in a marketable field. After all, even a professional sports career will not last forever, and a college graduate will have more opportunities available than one who has not earned a degree.</p>
<p><span class="keyword heading">ATHLETES &gt;&gt;</span> In college, the balance of time is so crit-ical because a typical women’s soccer schedule from August to December goes something like this: morning practice from 5:30 to 7:00; classes until 2:00; afternoon practice; homework; sleep. That’s not even taking into account traveling and road games. You absolutely have to take advantage of the resources that are given to you by the university to help keep your academics in line. There is a reason these resources exist, and it is because the school knows the amount of time student-athletes have available is not like most other students’.</p>
<p>You need to remember that you are a student-athlete, not an athlete-student or an athlete-athlete. If you want to keep your grades up and stay eligible, you have to be willing to use the resources made available by the university. And parents should keep an eye on what classes their child is taking, because students some-times want to take easy classes just so they can get the grades. Athletes, remember that you are getting a scholarship for this, so maximize what you’re getting the scholarship for and take the classes that are going to help you in your career post-college and outside the sports world. <span class="attribution">—Walid and Ziad</span></p>
</section>
</body></html>