<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"/>
<title>The Complete Athlete</title>
<link href="../Styles/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section>
<h2 id="p240">SOCIAL LIFE AND ROLE MODEL </h2>

<p>At Level 3, soccer players learned how to recognize and value a true friend and be a good role model to others. These attributes are also important at Level 4. With all the pressures on student-athletes, having strong friendships is vital to their emotional health. True friends will listen and sympathize when that’s needed, and they will provide fun and companionship when that’s needed. Once again, it’s important to be considerate of friends’ time and other commitments, and to be responsible when it comes to one’s own commitments. Nonetheless, carving out time for friends is an important part of a balanced lifestyle.</p>
<p>When it comes to socializing at college, the temptations to behave badly are many, and the consequences can be dire. There are parties at which alcohol may be served. Illegal drugs and other substances are often readily available on college campuses. Stressed-out friends may engage in impulsive, dangerous behavior and insist that you join them.</p>
<p>Student-athletes can be kicked off the team and lose their scholarships for many reasons. Their best bet is to continue to be a good role model by avoiding social situations that can get them into trouble.</p>
<p><span class="keyword heading">ATHLETE &gt;&gt;</span> It’s very important, when you first get to college as an incoming freshman, to start watching the older players. Pick out one or two who represent to you who you want to be when you are an upperclassman.</p>
<p>This is an important exercise for staying on track, because too many athletes come to college focused <a id="p241"/>but slip into partying by the second semester. If you carefully study the players you most want to be like, you’ll notice that they tend to be the ones who are the earliest to practice, who put in extra work when needed, who do very well academically, and who stay on top of their homework and tests. Follow their examples not just during the season, but during the off-season, too. Allow them to lead by example.</p>
</section>
</body></html>