<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"/>
<title>The Complete Athlete</title>
<link href="../Styles/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section>
<h2 id="p235">FAMILY</h2>

<p>A soccer player who has achieved Level 4 <span class="keyword">COMPLETE ATHLETE</span> status has already laid the foundation for a lifelong positive relationship with her <span class="keyword">family</span>. While at college, she should strive to maintain those positive relationships by:</p>
<p><span class="runin-head">Keeping in touch</span> Set aside a specific day and time each week to talk to your family by phone. You can also communicate regularly via e-mail or text messaging.</p>
<p><span class="runin-head">Staying in the loop</span> Even though you’re living elsewhere, you’ll want to feel connected with your family. Make sure your family keeps you informed and included in important family decisions, activities, and updates.</p>
<p><span class="runin-head">Visiting face to face</span> Discuss with your family options for spending time together face to face during holidays, birthdays, or other special events. Be actively involved in the planning so that you can work around important sports and/or academic responsibilities.</p>
<p><span class="keyword heading">PARENTS AND COACHES &gt;&gt;</span> The freshman year of college is almost always the hardest one in terms of transitioning. It is certainly when I get the most phone calls from my alumnae who are upset and needing support and reassurance. Family members and coaches have to be there for those players and really take the time to listen to them and let them know that what they’re going through is normal.</p>
<p>The pressure will come, either from the faster pace of the games, or from a player thinking she’s going to be the superstar just coming into the program, or from a <a id="p236"/>player expecting a great deal of playing time but getting bumped out by another player. She ends up depressed and wondering what happened and how.</p>
<p>When my former players call me and they are in this emotional rut, I say, “You know what? All you can do is just work hard and keep on working. Don’t make any excuses. The moment will come when a coach is going to tell you to get in the game. You’ve got to be ready for that moment. If you deliver, you’re going to stay on the field. If you’re not ready for that moment, prepared for that moment mentally, you’re going to fail. You have to get ready and stay ready.” And the way she prepares for that moment is for the parents and former coaches to be willing to walk her through that difficult adjustment period of new roommates and responsibilities, difficult classes, and being away from home, friends, family, former teammates, and everything familiar. When these young women reach out to their parents and coaches, they need to know they have a support system that wants the best for them.</p>
<p>One former player of mine was an absolute star and got a scholarship to UCLA—but then one day I got a call from her saying, “I can’t do it. I can’t do it. Can you come and get me?” So my daughter and I drove to UCLA together, since they had played high school soccer together, and when we arrived at her dorm, this player was already waiting at the curb with all of her bags packed. She threw all of her stuff in the trunk of the car, climbed in the back, and said, “Please, please, just take off.” She seemed like she was having an anxiety attack so I just told her to relax, and I took my time listening to her. I asked what was going on and let her express her feelings. They key is not to cut them off but to allow <a id="p237"/>them to be as open and honest as possible. They want to be heard when they reach out to parents and coaches—don’t brush them off.</p>
<p>I drove this player home, and she wanted me to tell her parents that she was going to transfer out of UCLA and into a small private school. I told her not to make any rash decisions but just to talk to her parents, so she did. Her parents said no, they did not want her to transfer, but they did want her to be happy. We just took our time working it out. I kind of played the facilitator between the player and her parents, helping her give voice to her feelings but also helping to provide a measured perspective. In the end, she decided to stay at UCLA.</p>
<p>Those are common stories. The transitions can be so difficult, but are so important. If we don’t listen to those kids when they want to tell us about their challenges and problems on and off the field, they might go down avenues or make choices that will ultimately hurt their lives and their careers. <span class="attribution">—Ziad</span></p>
</section>
</body></html>