<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"/>
<title>The Complete Athlete</title>
<link href="../Styles/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section>
<h2 id="p247">RESPECT</h2>

<p>As a Level-5 <span class="keyword">COMPLETE ATHLETE</span>, you must continue to demonstrate respect for your coaches and game officials, your teammates, and your opponents, as well as yourself. As a professional soccer player, you should also demonstrate <span class="keyword">respect</span> for the fans who come to see you and your team play. If someone asks for your autograph, be gracious and friendly. Remember, without the fans, you might not have a team to play on.</p>
<p><span class="keyword heading">ATHLETES &gt;&gt;</span> At the pro level right now, you’re going to start having fans follow you on Twitter, Facebook, and Instagram—and come to your games. You’ve got to show a lot of respect for those fans.</p>
<p>At the Super Cup in Sweden, you can see the players hugging fans afterward and just spending a great deal of time with them following the game. It is so moving to see little girls absolutely glowing as they get autographs from their favorite heroines. As a coach, it makes you proud to see your players making such a connection with the fans; and as a fan, that moment of genuine engagement can mean so, so much.</p>
<p>Don’t ever take your fans for granted and don’t ever think you are above meeting them, snapping photos, or shaking hands. Your supporters are a huge part of who you are as a player.</p>
<p><span class="keyword heading">ATHLETES &gt;&gt;</span> When Christen Press got drafted in the first round and had to share the front position with Abby Wambach, we talked about how important it was for her to give respect to the senior players who have paid their dues. The reason why she’s playing at the level <a id="p248"/>she is, is because these players paved the way for her. It is tremendously important when a rookie comes into a team that she gives the respect to the veteran players because of their experience and the ways that they can guide younger players on and off the field. It could be the turning point in a player growing as an athlete by being willing to be mentored. <span class="attribution">—Ziad</span></p>
</section>
</body></html>