<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"/>
<title>The Complete Athlete</title>
<link href="../Styles/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section>
<h2 id="p250">PROFESSIONALISM</h2>

<p>As a Level-5 <span class="keyword">COMPLETE ATHLETE</span>, a soccer player simply needs to be the <span class="keyword">professional</span> that she is being paid to be by representing her team and her sport admirably. In addition to the list of dos and don’ts presented in Level 4, a professional athlete must learn how to speak to the media correctly and in a way that presents her team in a good light.</p>
<p><span class="keyword heading">ATHLETES &gt;&gt;</span> At this level, every player has to understand that it’s not about the name on the back of the jersey; it’s about the name on the front of the jersey. Whenever you’re doing an interview or doing any charity work or involved in community activities, you’ve got to always remember that you’re representing a club, you’re representing your whole roster of that year, you’re representing the tradition that club set up in that community, and it’s not about you. It’s about the team.</p>
<p>It’s really important for the players to control their emotions, especially during an interview after a heart-breaking loss. Know that there are thousands, if not tens of or hundreds of thousands, of people watching that interview. They are waiting for you to see what you are going to say. Are you going to blame a teammate for costing you the game, or are you going to do just the opposite? Are you going to say, “We gave it everything and today just wasn’t our day,” or are you going to start pointing fingers? Remember that every single thing you say or do at that level is representing your team, your traditions, and your community. <span class="attribution">—Ziad</span></p>
</section>
</body></html>