<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"/>
<title>The Complete Athlete</title>
<link href="../Styles/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section>
<h2 id="p258">RECOVERY</h2>

<p>A Level-5 athlete needs to eat and drink within 30 minutes of a practice or game to make up for the calories she is burning and fluids she is using. Replenishing calories and fluids also aids in muscle <span class="keyword">recovery</span> and repair.</p>


<h3>HOW TO REPLENISH CALORIES AND FLUIDS &gt;&gt;</h3>

<ul>
	<li>Drink 24 ounces of fluid for every pound of sweat lost within a two-hour period of a game or practice.</li>
	<li>Consume 30–35 grams of protein plus an equal amount of carbohydrates within the 30-minute recovery window.</li>
</ul>

<p><span class="runin-head">Sleep</span> Sleep is still very important for muscle recovery and repair at this stage. Inadequate sleep will have a negative effect on athletic performance, and your body will not be able to bounce back as easily as it did when you were younger. According to the National Sleep Foundation, a Level-5 athlete should get 7–9 hours of sleep each night.</p>
<p id="p259">Obviously, research cannot pinpoint the&#160;exact&#160;amount of sleep needed by a particular individual, which is why it’s so important to pay attention to your own individual need for rest and recovery. One way to do this is by assessing how you feel on different amounts of sleep. For example:</p>

<ul>
	<li>Are you productive, healthy, and happy on seven hours of sleep? Or do you need closer to nine hours of quality sleep to feel this way? </li>
	<li>Do you wake feeling groggy, or do you bounce out of bed ready to take on the day?</li>
	<li>Do you depend on caffeine to get you through the day? </li>
	<li>Do you feel sleepy when driving?</li>
</ul>

<p>Experimenting with different amounts of sleep can give you a better idea of what your particular needs are for quality sleep.</p>
<p><span class="keyword heading">ATHLETES &gt;&gt;</span> Finding a work-life balance is so impor-tant for professional athletes. You see it over and over: when a team travels to another city, relatives, friends, and former teammates come out to meet the players. They want to grab dinner, grab a drink, catch up—and that is wonderful! But a professional also needs to know when to say, “Thank you! It was great seeing you, but it’s time for me to go now. I need to sleep before tomorrow.” A common denominator among great athletes is the strength to know when to say good-bye to well-intentioned visitors, because a lack of sleep is cumu-lative, and when it happens in city after city where people want to hang out, it can really wear on a person who is trying to balance their social life with a professional life in which they get paid to do what they love.</p>
</section>
</body></html>