<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"/>
<title>The Complete Athlete</title>
<link href="../Styles/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section>
<h2 id="p260">MENTALITY</h2>

<p>Being a better athlete does not necessarily mean training harder or longer. Certainly, a youth soccer player must spend time physically preparing her body to meet the demands of a practice session or game. Similarly, engaging in <span class="keyword">Mental Preparation</span> can help her perform at a higher level by creating the proper mindset for either practice or a game.</p>
<p>At Level 5, focus remains an important part of mental preparedness. More and more elite athletes and sports programs are incorporating mindfulness, meditation, and other practices into their training regimen. Accor-ding to Kristen Race, Ph.D., an expert on brain-based mindfulness solutions, “Mindfulness helps train the prefrontal cortex, the part of the brain that creates a calm and alert state of mind, which helps us stay focused, avoid distraction, and perform at our best.”<sup><a href="#note" epub:type="noteref">1</a></sup></p>
<p>Practicing mindfulness is not easy, but like everything else in sports, the more you do it, the better you get at it. Dr. Race suggests the following tips for prac-ticing mindfulness:</p>
<p><span class="runin-head">Engage in mindful breathing</span> every morning as well as before a game or practice, to create a calm and clear state of mind. Sit comfortably, close your eyes, and start to deepen your breath. Inhale fully and exhale completely. Focus on your breath entering and exiting your body. Start with five minutes and build up from there.&#160;</p>
<p><span class="runin-head">Conduct a body scan,</span> which can release tension, quiet the mind, and bring awareness to your body in a <a id="p261"/>systematic way. Lie down on your back, with your palms facing up and legs relaxed. Close your eyes. Start with your toes and notice how they feel. Are they tense? Are they warm or cold? Focus your attention here for a few breaths before moving on to the sole of your foot. Repeat the process as you travel from your foot to your ankle, calf, knee, and thigh. Bring your attention to your other foot and repeat the process.</p>
<p>Continue to move up to your hips, lower back, stomach, chest, shoulders, arms, hands, neck, and head—maintaining your focus on each body part and any sensations there. Breathe into any areas that are holding stress and try to release it.</p>
<p><span class="runin-head">Pay attention to your internal dialogue,</span> which can reflect—or even shape—your mental state. Instead of thinking, <em>“I hope I don’t miss the goal,”</em> speak in terms of what you want to achieve; for example, <em>“I’m going to score a point today.”</em></p>
<p><span class="keyword heading">ATHLETES &gt;&gt;</span> When Christen Press joined the national team, she began relying on meditation to help ready her mind to play. Her sister had attended Villanova and began to practice meditation there; she shared the techniques with Christen, and they became an important part of her preparation before each game. Christen has stated in interviews that she believes this conscious mindfulness gives her an edge to be strong and focused for big-stage games, like the Olympics qualifiers, the World Cup qualifiers, and World Cup matches.</p>

<aside id="note" class="footnote" epub:type="footnote">1. Christine Yu. “Mindfulness for Athletes: The Secret to Better Performance.” Daily Burn, 10 June 2014. (<a href='http://dailyburn.com/life/fitness/mindfulness-techniques-athletes/'>http://dailyburn.com/life/fitness/mindfulness-techniques-athletes/</a>)</aside>
</section>
</body></html>