<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"/>
<title>The Complete Athlete</title>
<link href="../Styles/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section>
<h2>SOCIAL LIFE</h2>

<p>As a Level-5 <span class="keyword">COMPLETE ATHLETE</span>, you should continue to maintain a supportive <span class="keyword">social life</span>. Make time for your friends when you can, and always strive to be a true friend. At the same time, be careful who you associate with, because you will be judged by the company you keep.</p>
<p><span class="keyword heading">ATHLETES &gt;&gt;</span> One time, we were running a camp with Paul Burns, who back then was the assistant coach for Newcastle United in England in the Premier League. He said, “What other element do you add to the most important elements that make a soccer player? What makes a soccer player is their technical ability, tactical ability and psychological and physical ability, but in the Premier League, one of the most important things that we look for is your lifestyle.”</p>
<p>When players begin signing contracts and making money, they often don’t know what to do with the sudden fame and fortune, and their entire lifestyle changes. Their social life becomes all about going out, partying, having a good time—and then they end up coming to games unprepared. It affects the way they play, as well as their mental game.</p>
<p>Who you choose to hang around with and how you choose to spend your time makes even more difference now than it did when you were in school, because now you don’t <a id="p274"/>have your parents to hold you accountable or the fear of losing a scholarship to help you make good choices. Pick the right friends, surround yourself with the right people, pay attention to the older players who have learned how to find the balance, and that will be the key to being truly successful.</p>
</section>
</body></html>