<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"/>
<title>The Complete Athlete</title>
<link href="../Styles/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section>
<h2>ACADEMICS</h2>

<p>As a Level-5 <span class="keyword">COMPLETE ATHLETE</span>, you should have earned your degree at college. As a professional athlete, you should take advantage of continuing education opportunities. For example, some sports organizations provide signing bonuses that include money just for school. Even if you’re not provided with education money, you should strive to expand your mind in new and different ways.</p>
<p>For example, business classes can help you later in life when you retire from sports. Taking classes just for fun, such as a foreign-language class or an art class, can provide an opportunity to develop creative skills. Yoga classes can help you reduce stress and even improve your performance on the field of play.</p>
<p><span class="keyword heading">ATHLETES &gt;&gt;</span> The women’s professional league draft is in December, so we have a lot of players who opt out of school in December to get drafted—which means they don’t finish their last semester of school. Many of them end up getting drafted, playing their season, and then returning to finish their last semester during the off-season.</p>
<p>That is so important because, at the end of the day, they have invested so much time in school and they are so close to finishing that it would be a waste not to. Even if they get drafted, they can still go back and finish their degree, and we always encourage them to do so. Otherwise, what do <a id="p273"/>you do if your career is cut short due to injury, or when you choose to retire? You’ve got to have that degree to think about transitioning to life outside of soccer. <span class="attribution">—Walid and Ziad</span></p>
</section>
</body></html>