<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"/>
<title>The Complete Athlete</title>
<link href="../Styles/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section>
<p id="p2" class="copyright">Copyright© 2016, The Complete Athlete, LLC</p>

<p class="copyright">Front cover photo: Madison Jabara</p>

<p class="copyright">ISBN- 9780692796986</p>

<p class="copyright">The purchase of this book entitles the buyer to reproduce student activity pages for single classroom use only. Other use requires written permission of publisher. All rights reserved.</p>

<p class="copyright">Printed in the United States of America.</p>

<p class="copyright">At the time of this book’s publication, all facts and figures cited are the most current available. All telephone numbers, addresses, and website URLs are accurate and active. All publications, organizations, websites, and other resources exist as described in the book, and all have been verified. The authors and Publisher/Mobilitie make no warranty or guarantee concerning the information and materials given out by organizations or content found at websites, and we are not responsible for any changes that occur after this book’s publication. If you find an error, please contact The Complete Athlete, LLC.</p>

<p class="copyright">The Complete Athlete, LLC
<br/>2220 University Drive,
<br/>Newport Beach, CA 92660
<br/>Phone: (949) 515-1500
<br/>Fax: (949) 515-1500
<br/>www.mobilitie.com</p>
</section>
</body></html>