<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"/>
<title>The Complete Athlete</title>
<link href="../Styles/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section>
<h1 id="p7" class="sec-header">INTRODUCTION</h1>

<h3>DO YOU DREAM OF BECOMING THE NEXT MIA HAMM? CARLI LLOYD? ALEX MORGAN?</h3>

<p>What could be better than playing a game you love and making money at it?</p>
<p>The idea of becoming a professional athlete and getting paid to play is very exciting. But the truth is, only a very small number of athletes make it to the pros. About 1 in 16,000 high school athletes becomes a professional athlete. According to the US Department of Education, fewer than 1 out of every 100 high school athletes receives a scholarship of any kind to a Division I school.</p>

<h3>BUT THAT DOESN’T MEAN YOU SHOULD GIVE UP ON YOUR DREAM. </h3>

<p>If you’re determined to become a professional soccer player, or even to earn a college scholarship, this book can help show you the way.</p>
<p>This book will help you prepare to play soccer at the highest levels AND be a desirable recruit for college and/or professional coaches. It emphasizes the concept that success is not just dependent on one’s natural ability; it is also influenced by attitude and behavior, as well as how you treat yourself and others, both on and off the field of play. Guidelines, suggestions, and real-life examples are provided by our team of experts, whom you can read about at the end of this book.</p>

<p id="p8">A youth athlete who is determined to earn a college scholarship and/or to become a professional soccer player needs to become a <span class="keyword">COMPLETE ATHLETE</span>. There are five levels to becoming a <span class="keyword">COMPLETE ATHLETE</span>. Generally speaking, the five levels correspond to the following (although there may be some overlap):</p>

<ul class="plain">
	<li>Level 1 - Elementary school athlete</li>
	<li>Level 2 - Middle school athlete</li>
	<li>Level 3 - High school athlete</li>
	<li>Level 4 - College athlete</li>
	<li>Level 5 - Professional athlete</li>
</ul>

<p>A <span class="keyword">COMPLETE ATHLETE</span> must also achieve the highest levels in five different categories:</p>
<p><span class="runin-head">Attitude</span> refers to how you behave on the field. For instance, listening quietly while the coach is talking and showing respect for your fellow players both demon-strate that you have a good attitude.</p>
<p><span class="runin-head">Preparation</span> refers to off-the-field activities, such as keeping your uniform clean and equipment well main-tained, learning everything you can about your sport, practicing, and more.</p>
<p><span class="runin-head">Fitness</span> refers to the physical fitness needed to compete in your sport.</p>
<p><span class="runin-head">Technique</span> revolves around skill level, including mas-tering the basics and specializing in a particular position.</p>
<p><span class="runin-head">Lifestyle</span> refers to how you treat yourself, including eating right and getting enough sleep. It also includes getting good grades and being a good member of your family and your community.</p>
</section>
</body></html>