<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"/>
<title>The Complete Athlete</title>
<link href="../Styles/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section>
<h1 id="p309">MEET THE TEAM</h1>

<p><span class="runin-head">Walid and Ziad Khoury</span> have become two of the most recognizable faces and personalities on the sidelines of youth soccer fields all over the nation. They are founders of national powerhouse Slammers Fútbol Club, which has consistently been ranked as one of the top 5 clubs in the nation for the past 15 years. Walid and Ziad have developed some of the best players for all levels, both domestically and internationally.</p>
<p>The Khoury brothers have guided Slammers Fútbol Club to four Elite Club National League (ECNL) national championships, four US Youth Soccer Association national championships, four US Club Soccer national championships, and three Manchester United world championships. In 2012 and 2016, Slammers Fútbol Club was awarded the ECNL Overall Club Championship, one of the most prestigious national awards in youth soccer, which recognizes outstanding performance in competition in every age group throughout the club.</p>
<p>Their teams have won every major tournament in the United States. Together, the Khoury brothers have coached more than 400 athletes who went on to play soccer in all divisions of college, at every level of the US National Team system, in the National Women’s Soccer League, and on international professional teams.</p>
<p>Players they have developed have gone on to become World Cup champions, Olympians, NCAA champions, NCAA Hermann Award winners and finalists, All-Americans, Gatorade Players of the Year and finalists, United States Youth Players of the Year, United States Female Athletes of the Year, and National Women’s Soccer League first-round draft picks.</p>
<p id="p310">They are both also winners of multiple Coach of the Year awards.</p>
<p><span class="runin-head">Dave Coggin,</span> from Upland, California, was a two-sport All-American in high school in both football and baseball. He was recruited heavily by D-1 schools on both coasts but signed with the Philadelphia Phillies right out of high school after being drafted in the first round.</p>
<p>Coggin played 12 years of professional baseball before launching Performance Fitness for Athletes (PFA), one of the premier baseball training facilities in the nation. PFA accommodates both professionals and amateurs and boasts more than 100 high-school players who have gone on to play baseball in all divisions of college, and more than 60 players who have been drafted into the pros from both high school and college.</p>
<p><span class="runin-head">Don Yaeger</span> is a nationally acclaimed motivational speaker, longtime associate editor of <cite>Sports Illustrated,</cite> and author of 25 books, nine of which have become <cite>New York Times</cite> best sellers. Don has written books with Hall of Fame running back Walter Payton, UCLA basketball coach John Wooden, baseball legends John Smoltz and Tug McGraw, and football stars Warrick Dunn and Michael Oher (featured in the movie <cite>The Blind Side</cite>), among others. He teamed with Fox News anchor Brian Kilmeade to pen the 2013 best seller <cite>George Washington’s Secret Six</cite>, a look at the citizen spy ring that helped win the Revolutionary War, and then again in 2015 for <cite>Thomas Jefferson and the Tripoli Pirates: The Forgotten War that Changed American History</cite>.</p>
<p>Don left <cite>Sports Illustrated</cite> in 2008 to pursue a motivational speaking career that has allowed him to <a id="p311"/>share stories learned from the greatest winners of our generation. In this capacity, he is able to share lessons from nearly three decades of studying how highly successful athletes and business professionals think, prepare, work, and live in order to consistently achieve greatness both on and off the field.</p>
<p><span class="runin-head">Mia Hamm</span> became the youngest person ever to play on a U.S. national youth team at the age of 15; in 1991, when she was 19, she was the youngest person ever to play in the World Cup. She attended UNC Chapel Hill, where she helped lead the Tar Heels to four consecutive NCAA National Championships. Hamm was a member of the U.S. Women’s National Soccer Team for 17 years, winning gold at the 1996 and 2004 Olympics as well as winning the 1991 and 1999 Women’s World Cup.</p>
<p>Five years in a row she was named Soccer USA’s Female Athlete of the Year (1994–1998) and she also won Soccer Player of the Year (2000, 2001, 2005) and Female Athlete of the Year (1998–2000) at the Excellence in Sports Performance Yearly Award (ESPYs). Until June 2013, she held the record for most international goals, male or female.</p>
<p>Hamm played for the Washington Freedom from 2001 to 2003, serves as a global ambassador for FC Barcelona, and has authored a number of books. She currently supports a variety of soccer and youth soccer organizations, as well as coaches her children’s teams.</p>
<!-- <p><span class="runin-head">Camille Levin</span> played for Slammers FC in Southern California, and represented the United States on several national youth teams. She received a soccer scholarship from Stanford, where, in 2011, she assisted the <a id="p312"/>game-winning goal to earn Stanford’s first NCAA National Championship. She was named to the NSCAA first team All-America, NSCAA first team All-Pacific Region, first team Pac-12, and the NCAA College Cup All-Tournament Team. Following graduation, she played for the Pali Blues in the United States and then for one of Sweden’s top teams, Kopparbergs/Göteborg FC. After playing a season with the Western Sydney Wanderers in Australia, Levin signed with the NWSL team, Sky Bly FC. Levin currently plays for the Orlando Pride.</p> -->
<p><span class="runin-head">Kassi McCluskie</span> grew up playing for the elite soccer club Sereno in Scottsdale, Arizona, before receiving a scholarship to play college soccer at the University of Portland. She was a US Youth National Team member and made four NCAA playoff appearances while in college. As a highly successful coach, she led the 99G Oregon Premier League State Championship Team and Beaverton High School Varsity Girls’ soccer teams. Since 2012, she has served as the Football Club Portland Elite Club National League coach.</p>
</section>
</body></html>