<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"/>
<title>The Complete Athlete</title>
<link href="../Styles/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<section>
<h2 id="sportsmanship">Sportsmanship</h2>
<p><span class="keyword">Good Sportsmanship</span> starts with respect for one’s teammates, opponents, coaches, and officials. A Level 5 <span class="keyword">COMPLETE ATHLETE</span> demonstrates good sportsmanship by:</p>
<ul>
	<li>Playing by the rules and never cheating</li>
	<li>Acknowledging and encouraging her teammates</li>
	<li>Accepting responsibility for her own mistakes</li>
	<li>Never arguing with the officials</li>
	<li>Winning and losing with grace</li>
</ul>
<p>As a professional soccer player, you must always remember that you are not the only player on the team. Even if you’re a star player, you can’t win a game all by yourself. Demonstrate good sportsmanship by giving credit to your teammates and your coaches when you win a game. You should also acknowledge that the other team was a formidable opponent.</p>
<p><span class="runin-head">ATHLETES &gt;&gt;</span> One of the best examples of sportsman-ship at the professional level was the Women’s World Cup final between Japan and the United States. It was supposed to be a great matchup, but the game was over by halftime with a score of 4-1. What was so amazing, <!--p249-->though, was that the Japanese team never argued with the referees or with one another. They stayed respectful and they continued to encourage one another as a team. After the game, they shook hands and didn’t act angry. They were being watched by their country and by the whole world, and they absolutely shone in terms of what real sportsmanship looks like. They were an example for every team, every player, and every coach to learn from. It was amazing to watch. <span class="attribution">–Walid and Ziad</span></p>
</section>
</body></html>