<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"/>
<title>The Complete Athlete</title>
<link href="../Styles/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<section class="featured">
<!--p276-->
<h1 class="sec-header">Mia Hamm</h1>
<p>When a player reaches the pros, certain things are completely new, but other things remain exactly the same as they have always been. For example, you are going to be up against better players than ever before and new playing styles you may not have encountered in the past—especially if you’re playing internationally. That means your game always has to be evolving and adapting, and you can’t think, “I’ve arrived! I know all I need to know.” Now, it is more important than ever to keep improving and practicing and growing. Even as you look to make the most of your own talents and unique skills, be sure you understand how those things fit in the team dynamic.</p>
<p>When I was growing up, there weren’t really many girls’ soccer programs, so I ended up playing on mostly co-ed teams that didn’t have many girls on them. They were really just mostly boys’ teams. As a result, I learned to be competitive in a different kind of way, and I’ve always been grateful for how those experiences shaped me to make me a tougher player. I know other women who had similar experiences. Sometimes, girls on co-ed teams were told, “Oh, don’t play so hard. You don’t need to work as hard as you do.” My parents never said anything like that, but I know plenty of women who did hear things like that. When I got to college, however, the message was always, “Don’t you want to see how good you can be. Don’t you think you owe that to yourself?” I loved that message, and I think it is as true at Level 1 as it is at Level 5, and every Level in between. Working hard is not just for a certain few on the team—it’s for everyone.</p>
<!--p277-->
<p>One of the ways I let my teammates on the U.S. National Team know I cared about them was by working hard and giving my all every single practice, every single game, every single minute of the day. I wanted them to know that I was thinking about our team when we were together as well as when we were apart. That meant that I showed up to camp as fit as possible, instead of letting my fitness lapse in the off-season; and I knew they were doing the same for me. And I was committed to continuing to learn. I learned something every single day because I never wanted to stop growing and improving as a player and as a person. The more invested I was in getting better in every aspect of my professional and personal life, the better person and player I was going to be. That’s what makes an athlete a complete athlete</p>
</section>
</body></html>