<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"/>
<title>The Complete Athlete</title>
<link href="../Styles/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<section>
<h2 id="nutrition">Nutrition</h2>
<p>As a college student-athlete moves on to professional sports, <span class="keyword">Nutrition</span> continues to play a key role, not only for optimal performance on the field of play, but also for optimal health throughout her life.</p>
<h3>Level 5 athlete nutrition guidelines &gt;&gt;</h3>
<p>Each individual has different macronutrient needs, based on height, weight, age, activity level, and genetic background. The following macronutrient guidelines are based on age and estimated activity level for a Level 5 athlete:</p>
<ul>
	<li>45% carbohydrate</li>
	<li>35% protein</li>
	<li>20% fat</li>
	<li>No more than 7% saturated fat</li>
	<li>No trans fat</li>
	<li>38-40 grams of fiber per day</li>
	<li>No more than 150 calories per day from sugar (37.5 grams or 9 teaspoons)</li>
</ul>
<p><span class="runin-head">ATHLETES &gt;&gt;</span> As a professional, the way you take care of yourself says everything about you. The more you put the right food in your body and stay in playing condition, <!--p257-->the more longevity and fewer injuries you’re going to have as an athlete. It tells coaches what kind of shape you are in when you come in the preseason. Among the really great players, the common denominator is that they always take care of themselves in the off-season. They get up in the morning and work out on their own or with other players from the team, or they even hire their own conditioning coaches and nutritionists. They take care of themselves because they know how important it is for them when they show up to that first practice, to that first preseason camp. The biggest indicator to their coaches of where they are at, their commitment to their team, and how promising their future is, is what kind of care those athletes take of their bodies in the off-season.</p>
</section>
</body></html>