<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"/>
<title>The Complete Athlete</title>
<link href="../Styles/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<section>
<!--p255-->
<h2 id="practice">Practice</h2>
<p>If you have become a Level 5 <span class="keyword">COMPLETE ATHLETE</span>, you may already be playing soccer professionally. Like at Level 4, practice sessions will be supervised by an elite coaching staff. Nonetheless, a professional soccer player takes full responsibility for training and practicing safely, both independently as well as with the team. She knows her body well enough to know how to push her-self while at the same time minimizing the risk of injury. After all, an injured player can’t play at her full potential.</p>
<p>A Level 5 <span class="keyword">COMPLETE ATHLETE</span> continues to practice those skills she has already mastered—including the basics. In addition, she develops and practices new and innovative skills that can provide a competitive advantage for her team.</p>
<p><span class="runin-head">ATHLETES &gt;&gt;</span> I was stuck in Chicago O’Hare with a connecting-flight delay that wouldn’t leave until late the next day, so I called my friend Rory Damos, coach of the Chicago Red Stars. He came and picked me up and invited me to watch the team practice, so I did. Afterward, I noticed two players who stayed afterward doing extra shots: Julie Johnston and Christen Press, both of whom had just played in the World Cup. They were probably the two players who least needed to stay after for extra work, but there they were, fresh off of winning the World Cup. Even now, at the highest point of their careers, they were still putting in the extra time—which is the reason they reached such a high level in the first place.</p>
<p>I coached Christen Press from the time she was at Level 1 all the way through, and she always showed up early or stayed late to take shots. That’s the reason she broke <!--p256-->the record for Stanford for the most goals scored ever in Stanford history. That’s why she already has 31 goals for the U.S. National Team. It goes to show you how important practice is and how it is even more important to put your own time into practices after your official practice is done. <span class="attribution">–Walid</span></p>
</section>
</body></html>